DUBLIN — Ireland's state-funded sport coordination body suspended future funding to the Football Association of Ireland (FAI) on Tuesday after the football body acknowledged that it failed to comply with its grant approval terms.Sport Ireland, which has been demanding answers from the FAI over a 100,000 euro (£86,451) short-term loan provided to it by former chief executive John Delaney, said the acknowledgement was made in a written statement the FAI was due to deliver to a parliamentary committee on Wednesday.Delaney, who was moved to a new role of executive vice-president at the FAI shortly after details of the loan were first reported, is due to appear before the committee with other officials on Wednesday to answer questions over a story that has made frontpage news in Ireland in the last month.In the FAI's statement to the committee, a copy of which was seen by Reuters, chairman Donal Conway said circumstances arose in April 2017 -- when it received the loan -- that were not related to Sport Ireland in line with grant approval conditions.The FAI said last month that the loan was needed due to short-term cash flow issues and that it was repaid in full two months later. Sport Ireland, however, said it was never notified about any deterioration in finances, as the FAI would have been obliged to do. "The Board of Sport Ireland will consider the reinstatement of funding once all ongoing reports commissioned by the FAI have been completed and the recommendations adopted," it said in a statement, referring to reviews the FAI has commissioned from audit firm Mazars and accountant Grant Thornton.The FAI, which generated a retained surplus of 2.8 million euros on revenues of 49 million in 2017, its last set of published reports, receives annual funding of 2.7 million euros from the state. It has already drawn down half of it for 2019.The FAI said it was unfortunate Sport Ireland felt compelled to suspend the funding, which was crucial to the development of Irish soccer."The Association is keen to restore trust and confidence and rebuild the relationship with Sport Ireland as soon as possible," FAI chairman Conway said in a statement.Lawmakers due to quiz the FAI on Wednesday welcomed the suspension and said they would also seek answers about the decision to move Delaney to another position in the association."It's a damning indictment that such shoddy financial and corporate governance practices were permitted. Hopefully this is the start of a real change," Noel Rock, a member of the governing Fine Gael party, said on Twitter. (Reporting by Padraic Halpin; Editing by Hugh Lawson and Toby Davis)
(Reuters) - Brazil's female footballers have made great strides in growing their domestic game but they lack the organisation to emulate the United States team and demand the same pay and conditions as men, defender Erika told Reuters on Tuesday.The Brazilian Football Confederation (CBF) this year obliged all first division clubs to create a women's side and are funding them directly, officials said.But their income is still vastly inferior to their male counterparts and Erika said she is envious of the World Cup-winning U.S. squad, 28 of whom sued the U.S. Soccer Federation last month in a lawsuit that includes complaints about wages and working conditions."I think it is sensational what the U.S. players did," she said in a phone interview from Spain, the day after Brazil lost 1-0 to Scotland in a friendly, their ninth consecutive defeat."We have the strength to do the same in Brazil but we don't have courage or the (people) to guide us."The U.S. women are a gigantic force. They have won a lot and that makes it easier for them to fight for what they want. We need to be united but we haven't managed that."Erika blamed that lack of unity on geography. Most of the Brazilian women play their club football outside the country and get together only for international games, which makes organising more difficult."I think distance is a problem," the 31-year-old Corinthians defender said. "The principal players are based outside the country and that makes it more complicated, if they were all able to be here it would make it easier to develop, and we'd be stronger. "Sadly, we still think individually."The Brazilian players nevertheless looked at recent big crowds for women's matches in Spain and Italy – a world record 60,739 people turned out to see Atletico Madrid take on Barcelona last month - as indicative of the growing power of the female game.Women's football has gained a higher profile this year in Brazil, with the CBF paying to help women's teams compete in the 16-team first division and also setting up a second division and under-18 league. "Without a doubt here has been a huge growth and there is a long way to go," Erika said. "I want to see the kind of crowds we saw in Madrid in Brazil. It inspires us."Brazil are one of 24 teams who will take part in the Women's World Cup in France from June 7-July 7. (Reporting by Andrew Downie; Editing by Christian Radnedge)
MANCHESTER, England — Not once, no matter how bad the temptation or how high the stakes or how deep his frustration, has Pep Guardiola done what he is supposed to do. He has not called Liverpool lucky, or hinted at a conspiracy among referees in awarding penalties at Anfield, or questioned whether his chief rival had the resolve to stay the course.Instead, Guardiola, the Manchester City manager, has been unremittingly, unapologetically positive. Liverpool and its manager, Jürgen Klopp, kept him awake at night, he said earlier this season. He has called Klopp the best manager in the world for crafting high-energy teams. He has said, as recently as last week, that he expects Liverpool to win all of its remaining games in the Premier League.Klopp, of course, has been just as bad. Manchester City, he said around Christmas, is the best team in the world. A few weeks later, he said he had tried to find a weakness in Guardiola’s team, and come up short.This is not the usual timbre of discourse in a Premier League title race, particularly one so delicately poised that at this late stage, a single misstep from one would, most likely, hand the crown to the other. Much more familiar is the sort of playground psychological warfare practiced by Alex Ferguson and José Mourinho, where every word was a provocation.Initially, then, it was easy to assume that Klopp and Guardiola were simply trying to kill each other with kindness, even if it was not immediately clear what advantage, for example, Klopp’s describing Manchester City as “the best team in the world” might confer on Liverpool.So powerful is the legacy of Ferguson, so deep-seated the obsession with mind games, that it has taken a while to realize that there are no thorns hidden among the garlands, to remember that praise can have a function other than piling pressure on an opponent. Not everything is a play. Klopp admires the team Guardiola has built. Guardiola respects the transformation Klopp has overseen. It is the same among the players: Virgil van Dijk has voted for Raheem Sterling as player of the year. The ultimate destination of the title will not change that. Compliments can be sincere.With the race so tight — Liverpool (82 points) ahead at the moment, but City (80) with a game in hand — that mutual admiration does not extend to the fans of the two clubs, of course. There is no particular historical enmity between Manchester City and Liverpool, but over the last year a distinctly modern rivalry has started to take shape.At first, it seemed to manifest primarily online, performative and point-scoring, in which Liverpool resented City’s wealth, ambition and relevance, and City chafed at Liverpool’s history and fame. Over the last year that has changed, bleeding into the three-dimensional world, invoked in songs that sweep down from the stands at the Etihad Stadium, in particular.The great flash point, of course, was the attack on Manchester City’s team bus outside Anfield before last year’s meeting in the Champions League quarterfinals, an act met with outright and understandable fury by City. The direct competition between the teams this season, the fact that their fortunes are so inextricably intertwined, has served only to oxidize it.Even as the animus on the outside has hardened, relations on the inside remain cordial. When an article appeared earlier this year suggesting Fenway Sports Group, Liverpool’s owner, was leading a campaign to persuade the Premier League to investigate Manchester City’s breaches of Financial Fair Play rules, Liverpool moved quickly to offer City assurances that was not the case.The connections are even closer among the staff. Two of Liverpool’s senior scouts, Dave Fallows and Barry Hunter, were recruited from City; so, too, was Lee Nobes, the head physiotherapist; Mona Nemmer, Klopp’s head of nutrition, worked with Guardiola at Bayern Munich (and made such an impression that when he first arrived in England, Guardiola asked if the clubs might be able to share her expertise).Rodolfo Borrell, a key member of Guardiola’s coaching staff, meanwhile, made his name at Barcelona, but was first brought to England by Liverpool; he spent more than four years on Merseyside before moving to City in 2014. Darren Hughes, the lead coach at City’s academy, is among three staff members hired from Liverpool the same year.There is a limit to those bonds, of course. There is a lingering sense among some at City that Liverpool is offered preferential treatment by the news media, has a larger contingent of former players in television studios than is easily justified and receives rather more coverage than its recent achievements warrant. After the team waited three decades for a championship, Liverpool’s desperation is plain; for City, the pleasure of a fourth title in seven years would be heightened by the identity of its vanquished opponent.In a way, though, each team should be grateful for the other. City’s excellence has served to accelerate Liverpool’s improvement, persuading Fenway Sports Group to make Alisson Becker (briefly) the world’s most expensive goalkeeper, and to turn van Dijk into the costliest defender in history. City had set such high standards that there was simply no other choice but to invest; anything else would have been acquiescence to fate.And while Manchester City fans might have found last season’s procession to the title — when City became the first team in history to record 100 points — substantially less stressful, Liverpool’s emergence as a genuine rival has not diminished City’s greatness. Rather, it has accentuated it.
JACKSON COUNTY, Tenn. — Authorities say a diver who helped save a youth soccer team from a flooded cave in Thailand last year has himself been rescued from a cave in Tennessee.Jackson County Emergency Management spokesman Derek Woolbright said Josh Bratchley had been missing for nearly 28 hours when he was found Wednesday night and pulled from the cave. He was checked out at the scene, but said he was fine and declined medical treatment.Woolbright told news outlets that a group of experienced divers had reported one of its members missing after a dive. A larger search found him in an air pocket.Bratchley was part of a British team that rescued 12 soccer players and their coach from a flooded cave in Thailand.
LIVERPOOL, England — Mohamed Salah’s name flashed up on the scoreboard. It rang out of Anfield’s public address system. It rolled and roiled down the stands and washed onto the field and into the sky, infused with jubilation and wonder, with relief and belief.It was, though, wishful thinking. The last-minute goal that had given Liverpool an ill-deserved and scarcely explicable 2-1 victory against Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday, the strike that restored Jürgen Klopp’s team to the top of the Premier League — until Wednesday, at least — and that ensured Manchester City still cannot, technically, afford even one slip did not belong to Salah. Deep down, everyone in the stadium knew the truth: the goal, if it belonged to anyone, belonged to chaos.There is a tendency, as seasons draw to a close and prizes begin to be claimed, to imbue certain moments with particular importance, to believe that specific games and specific goals were not just decisive but defining: when trophies were won and lost, the fulcrum on which the whole season turned, the proof of the gray hand of destiny at work.Fans do it. Managers do it. Journalists and commentators do it, without fail, pretty much every Monday, obsessive saturation coverage demanding that no sooner have events ended than conclusions are drawn, that no weekend must pass without one thing or another having been decided or proved or finished. It is sport’s nod to Thomas Carlyle: a great moment theory of history.It is a comforting idea. By appointing certain moments as key, the long, exhausting stretch of a season comes to seem — even if only in retrospect — somehow more ordered; a structured, coherent whole seems to bloom from a morass of happenstance. It allows us to apportion merit, and blame, and to establish the parameters and boundaries of success. It means we can make sense of the randomness.It is, though, a myth. Seasons are, by definition, collections of moments; discerning which one is the one on which everything hinged, which one is more important than all the others, is an impossibility.For Liverpool this season, there have been half a dozen, at least. Daniel Sturridge’s late equalizer at Chelsea, way back in September, the goal that maintained an unbeaten start to the campaign; Divock Origi’s freakish winner in December’s Merseyside derby; the late penalty missed by Riyad Mahrez in October that ensured Manchester City did not win at Anfield; Origi’s miss, deep into injury time, against West Ham in February (for a reserve who has barely played this year, Origi seems to have been identified by fate as a person of immense interest).It is the same, of course, for City. The defending Premier League champion has seemed, at times, almost to breeze through much of the season, sweeping inferior opponents aside with little fuss and considerable style, but there are instants City will remember, too: the missed chances in defeat to Chelsea, perhaps, or Ricardo Pereira’s late winner for Leicester City; the shot from Sadio Mané that, somehow, did not cross the line when Liverpool visited the Etihad Stadium; the shot from Leroy Sané that, later on that evening, very much did.These are all the moments on which the season turned; not all of them can be worthy of that title. There were two alone in the final 10 minutes of Sunday’s game. First, Moussa Sissoko burst clear for Tottenham, only Virgil Van Dijk and Alisson Becker standing in his way, the chance not just to inflict untold damage Liverpool’s title hopes in his grasp. Van Dijk forced him to shoot; his effort rose and rose, flying high over the crossbar. Anfield breathed again.And then, with just a minute left to play, Trent Alexander-Arnold lifted in a cross — first time, too high, more in hope than expectation — and Salah, ghosting in at the far post, managed to meet it. His header was soft, and straight at Hugo Lloris; the moment seemed to have gone. For reasons that remain unclear, Lloris fumbled the ball. It fell onto Toby Alderweireld’s foot, and dribbled, in comical slow motion, across the line. Salah wheeled away in celebration, claiming the goal as his own, as if he only needed to believe it to make it so.It was not his goal, though. It was Alderweireld’s, if it was anyone’s, but really it was a strike against the idea that, even at this most rarefied level, there is a navigable structure to events. It was a reminder that not everything happens for a reason, that there is no overarching narrative, other than that which will be retrofitted with the benefit of hindsight; that sometimes, everything is chaos.The consequence is that, as the Premier League enters its final stretch, Liverpool has a two-point lead, but Manchester City has a game in hand. The former has the greater pressure, a three-decade wait for a league championship bearing down on a group of players who have never won a trophy together. The latter has the greater workload, with a game roughly every three days between now and mid-May, should progress be assured both in the Champions League and F.A. Cup.City is the favorite. Liverpool, as Klopp has said on several occasions, refuses to go away. The test now, perhaps, is how well Pep Guardiola’s team can cope with its hectic schedule as it chases glory on four fronts, and how well Liverpool can manage its nerves.The closest Premier League title race since 2012 will be settled by whichever frays first. Nothing, ultimately, is finished yet. All of those moments have come and gone. All of them have felt significant, seismic, in their immediate aftermath, little shafts of clarity in the overwhelming mood of uncertainty that descends on a situation this tight, this tense.There are six weeks to play, a handful of games, and there is still only one slip, one failure of concentration, one poor performance, in it. None of those moments has proved decisive: ultimately, irrevocably decisive. That is, as of now, still to come. It is April, and the season has not yet turned.
NEW YORK — Taylor Swift, TV journalist Gayle King and soccer star Mohamed Salah are among the six famous faces featured on the covers of Time's annual "100 Most Influential People in the World" issue.The other cover stars also included House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and actors Sandra Oh and Dwayne Johnson.Fellow Democrat Hillary Clinton wrote Pelosi "is living proof that when it comes to getting the job done, more often than not, it takes a woman."Johnson was praised for establishing a positive work environment, while Oh is cited for her creative life.Musician Shawn Mendes wrote Swift "makes anyone older feel young again."The issue is comprised of short tributes written by fellow global luminaries throughout all industries.Beyoncé penned an essay on former first lady Michelle Obama. President Donald Trump and Special Counsel Robert Mueller were also on this year's list.___This story has been corrected to show the singer's last name is Mendes, not Mendez, and the soccer star's last name is Salah, not Saleh.
Nevada law enforcement officials investigating a sexual-assault accusation against the soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo have requested a sample of the player’s DNA from the Italian authorities, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department confirmed Thursday evening.Mr. Ronaldo, a Portuguese wing and five-time world player of the year, plays in Italy for the powerhouse club Juventus.“The LVMPD is taking the same steps in this case as in any other sexual assault to facilitate the collection of DNA evidence,” Laura Meltzer, a spokeswoman for the Las Vegas police, said in a statement. The department declined to give any additional information about the investigation.Investigators are seeking the DNA sample as part of a recently reopened investigation into accusations by an American woman, Kathryn Mayorga, who said Mr. Ronaldo raped her in a Las Vegas hotel room in 2009 and later paid her $375,000 for her silence.“Mr. Ronaldo has always maintained, as he does today, that what occurred in Las Vegas in 2009 was consensual in nature, so it is not surprising that DNA would be present, nor that the police would make this very standard request as part of their investigation,” one of Ronaldo’s lawyers, Peter S. Christiansen, said in a statement Thursday.Juventus declined to comment.Mr. Ronaldo and his lawyers repeatedly denied the rape accusation when it first emerged in October; Mr. Ronaldo labeled them “fake news” in a video posted on one of his social media accounts, and at one point his lawyers threatened to sue the German newsmagazine that was the first to publish Mayorga’s accusations.The magazine, Der Spiegel, said it had obtained confidential documents related to the case, and the purported payment to settle it, from the shadowy whistle-blower platform Football Leaks. Around the same time, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said it had reopened its investigation into the alleged rape, following up on information it said had been provided to them by the victim.A number of the documents Ms. Mayorga’s lawyers say support her claim were published by Der Spiegel, which also published a lengthy interview with Ms. Mayorga. Mr. Ronaldo’s lawyers described the publication of the documents, which included a questionnaire Der Spiegel said detailed events that occurred in a suite at the Palms hotel almost a decade ago, as “blatantly illegal.”Mr. Ronaldo, now 33, was a star at England’s Manchester United when he met Ms. Mayorga, now 35, at a Las Vegas nightclub in 2009, just before his record-breaking transfer to Real Madrid. He invited her and others to his suite in the early hours of June 13, 2009, she said.According to her lawsuit, Ms. Mayorga reported the assault to the police later that day and received a medical examination, during which evidence was collected in what is sometimes known as a rape kit. The Las Vegas police have acknowledged that Ms. Mayorga filed a report and was examined, but the police said she did not name her attacker at that time. The case was reopened at Ms. Mayorga’s request in September.News of the warrant came two days after a second woman, Jasmine Lennard, an English model and reality television star who previously wrote a tell-all about her relationship with Mr. Ronaldo, accused him of violent behavior in a series of posts on Twitter.In more than a dozen posts, Ms. Lennard said Mr. Ronaldo had threatened to “have me kidnapped and have my body cut up and put in a bag and thrown in a river” if she dated somebody else. She also tweeted offers of help to Ms. Mayorga’s lawyers.She did not share the “hundreds of messages” she said she had kept, however, and later deleted her Twitter account. In a statement provided to a British newspaper, Mr. Ronaldo’s legal team said the player had never had contact with Ms. Lennard, and would take “appropriate legal action in due course.”Ms. Lennard could not be reached for comment on her accusations.
The organizing committee of FIFA announced Monday that it would recommend the use of video assistant referee technology at the Women’s World Cup this summer, bringing refereeing advances introduced at the men’s World Cup in Russia last year to soccer’s most important women’s championship for the first time. The decision, which is expected to be approved by the governing FIFA Council when it meets later this month in Miami, is a victory for women’s soccer players, coaches and fans who have highlighted gender equality issues in the international game.The technology, known by the acronym V.A.R., allows the on-field referee to consult with a colleague viewing video replays to help confirm, or overturn, close calls in a narrow set of instances. It was fully implemented for the first time at a major FIFA tournament last summer at the men’s World Cup, where FIFA hailed its introduction as a rousing success.But as the 2019 Women’s World Cup came into view, FIFA repeatedly declined to confirm whether V.A.R. would be at that competition as well, turning the issue into another flash point — alongside artificial turf fields and unequal compensation and bonuses — in the broader gender equity debate in soccer.On the V.A.R. point, at least, the debate seems finally to be settled.Gianni Infantino, the president of FIFA, said last weekend that he supported the use of the technology at the women’s event in June, stating that it was proving effective at discouraging the type of diving and playacting that often plague major soccer tournaments.“Players now know that it’s not just sufficient to have a look where is the referee, so if he doesn’t see me I can simulate, because he or she will be caught,” Infantino said, according to The Associated Press. “That’s why V.A.R. automatically helps the fight against simulation and diving in a very efficient way.”Referees for the Women’s World Cup began training with the video technology this winter at a series of seminars in Abu Dhabi and Doha. FIFA later said some had been introduced to the technology as early as 2016.Still, as this summer’s tournament in France approached, questions lingered about whether there would be enough time to get all of the untrained officials up to speed and comfortable with the protocols. FIFA on Monday said their progress had been satisfactory.“Based on the thorough work carried out over the past few months, FIFA is happy with the steps taken and the excellent job done by FIFA’s refereeing team and the female referees involved,” Zvonimir Boban, the deputy secretary general of FIFA, said in a statement. “We are confident about proposing the use of V.A.R. in France to the FIFA Council, as we are very positive about its implementation.”V.A.R. technology is quickly becoming an indispensable, if still sometimes controversial, presence at the top men’s competitions in the world. Many leagues and competitions — from Major League Soccer in the United States to Germany’s Bundesliga and England’s F.A. Cup — already use the system. European soccer officials announced in December that they would introduce it for the knockout rounds of this year’s Champions League, the world’s richest club competition.In a recent interview with The New York Times, United States Coach Jill Ellis said she felt it was “hugely important” that the use of V.A.R. in the women’s game kept pace with its spread on the men’s side.“First and foremost, we’ve got to fight for what’s going to help the game,” she said. “You can just see the benefit of it. It’s proven.”Becky Sauerbrunn, a longtime defender for the United States team, and a member of its 2015 Women’s World Cup champions, said that while the V.A.R. issue was far from the most pressing gender equality issue in international soccer, it symbolized the many little ways that FIFA can make the women’s game feel like an afterthought.For her, its use was just a matter of common sense.“For me it’s, why not?” Sauerbrunn said. “Why not give it to the women if you give it to the men?”
DUBLIN — Former Football Association of Ireland (FAI) boss John Delaney offered on Monday to leave the governing body completely, the FAI said, amid criticism from fans, players and politicians over the association's corporate governance practices.Delaney, who was moved to a newly-created role of executive vice-president just 24 days ago after it was first reported he provided the FAI with a 100,000 euro ($113,010) loan in 2017, faced criticism, including from Ireland's prime minister, for refusing to answer questions about the funds in front of a parliamentary committee.The short-term loan, which the FAI said it needed to relieve cash-flow issues in 2017 and avoid breaking its 1.5 million euro overdraft limit, has been a major news story in Ireland and led to investigations into the association's finances and corporate governance, as well as calls for sweeping board changes.The FAI's state funding was suspended last week as the failure to disclose the deterioration in its finance at the time contravened grant approval rules."John Delaney has offered to voluntarily step aside from carrying out his role as Executive Vice-President with immediate effect pending the completion of an independent investigation by the association into issues of concern to the board," the FAI said in a statement.Two other long-standing members of the 11-person board -- Honorary Secretary Michael Cody and Honorary Treasurer Eddie Murray - also voluntarily resigned on Monday. Delaney did not answer questions from reporters as he left a meeting with the board on Monday.Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar said on Friday that he did not think anyone would be satisfied by Delaney's appearance at the committee, where, aside from reading an opening statement, he remained silent through most of the five-hour hearing.Delaney told the committee he offered the loan as the FAI potentially only had a few hours to resolve its cash-flow issues and that he recalled asking the association's then finance director if any disclosure obligations arose from it.Following the meeting, two of the FAI's main sponsors, sportswear manufacturer New Balance and mobile phone operator Three, called on the FAI to quickly implement recommendations from reports it has commissioned into its corporate governance.Groups representing supporters and players also demanded that Delaney, who is a member of European soccer body UEFA's executive committee, leave the association he took charge of in 2004.Lawmakers were told last week that only three members of the FAI's board were made aware of the loan in April 2017 and FAI chairman Donal Conway said the association would handle cash flow issues differently if they occurred again.The Sunday Times newspaper, which first reported details of the loan, reported on Sunday that Delaney spent almost 40,000 euros on his work credit card in the space of six months shortly before he had to personally bail out the association.Citing credit card statements, the newspaper said the charges included duty-free purchases, meals in Delaney's local pub and cash withdrawals of more than 6,000 euros.The FAI did not respond to questions from Reuters over whether the alleged use of the credit card contravened its rules and Delaney's solicitor did not respond when asked to comment on the report.
They arrived in the offseason at a combined cost of $140 million, with the intention of bringing a new dimension to Liverpool's midfield.Fabinho would be the pure, out-and-out holding midfielder the team had been missing for a few years. Naby Keita would be the energetic, goal-scoring, box-to-box runner in the mold of Steven Gerrard.It has taken eight months — and some initial skepticism — but they are finally proving their worth to a team that could yet end the season as the Premier League champions, not to mention Champions League winners.The goals from Liverpool's three-pronged strikeforce of Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino speak for themselves. The defense, marshalled by the dominant Virgil van Dijk, is deservedly getting plaudits for the being the meanest in the league.But Liverpool manager Juergen Klopp at last might have his ideal midfield to complete the team.Much to his initial frustration, Fabinho was eased slowly into English soccer by Klopp following a move from Monaco for 50 million euros ($58 million). The Brazil international has underlined his versatility by filling in at center back — and even right back — but is now a mainstay as the team's midfield anchorman, his long legs and reading of the game regularly breaking up opposition attacks.Keita has taken even longer to feel at home since joining from Leipzig for a reported 70 million euros (then $85 million). Some turns and flicks aside, the Guinea midfielder has produced largely forgettable performances in his first season for Liverpool as he struggled to get attuned to the pressing game required in Klopp's team.But he has started Liverpool's last three games and scored in two of them — his first goals for the club. Even though he didn't score in the 2-0 win over Chelsea on Sunday that kept Liverpool in first place by two points, Keita regularly popped up in or around the box to give Chelsea's defenders another player to think about apart from Mane, Salah and Firmino."It is not easy to move from Germany to change club, especially as the league is not the same," said Mane, who briefly played with Keita at Red Bull Salzburg in 2014. "It is part of the things you have to deal with and he is working hard every single day."The real Naby is coming still."Tellingly, the blossoming of Fabinho and Keita has given Jordan Henderson some license and freedom to get forward, and the captain is in arguably his best form this season. Henderson changed the game when coming on as a substitute in the 3-1 win over Southampton on April 5 and set up Mane's opening goal against Chelsea with a delicate cross after bursting into the box.Henderson recently revealed he went to Klopp's office to speak to the manager about playing further forward, having spent most of the season as the holding midfielder in front of the defense. Fabinho's emergence has enabled Klopp to make that switch and Henderson looks, for the moment anyway, to have ousted Georginio Wijnaldum from the lineup.It is a tough call on Wijnaldum, who has been one of the best players not just for Liverpool but in the Premier League.But these are the ebbs and flows of a long season and the Fabinho-Keita-Henderson triumvirate looks to be Liverpool's new-look midfield. Expect them to be first choice for the final games of the season as the team chases titles at home and in Europe.___
The Red Bulls rallied from a scoreless first half to rout the visiting San Jose Earthquakes, 4-1, on Saturday behind two goals from Alex Muyl.The Red Bulls, who had the top record in M.L.S. in 2018, improved to 1-0-1. San Jose, which had the worst record, is now 0-3-0.Yet the Earthquakes turned in an inspired effort and had a 1-0 lead at the end of the first half. But in the second, the Red Bulls drew even a little more than five minutes in, and the momentum shifted.Bradley Wright-Phillips drilled a shot that forced San Jose goalie Daniel Vega to the ground for a diving deflection. The ball went to the left, and to Daniel Royer.Royer sent it back across the goal to Muyl, who first-timed it into the net to tie the game at 1-1.In the 71st minute, the Red Bulls made it 2-1, again on the efforts of Royer and Muyl. Royer took the ball to the end line before cutting it back to the middle. The ball deflected off a San Jose defender, forcing it into the air. When it came down, Muyl was waiting, volleying it home for the lead.Wright-Phillips made it 3-1 with five minutes left in regular time, converting a pass from Sean Davis. Royer got the last goal, putting home a cross from Michael Murillo in the final minute of the game.San Jose scored in the fifth minute. Magnus Eriksson found Cristian Espinoza down the right side. Espinoza pushed it into the box and then beat goalie Luis Robles to his right.
This photo gallery highlights some of the top news images made by Associated Press photographers in Latin America and the Caribbean that were published in the past week.Rival political factions took to the streets across Venezuela in a struggle for control of the crisis-wracked nation recently hit by crippling blackouts, as Vice President Mike Pence urged the U.N. to recognize an opposition leader as Venezuela's president in place of Nicolás Maduro.In Paraguay, more than 20,000 people were evacuated after torrential rains caused extensive flooding. Heavy rains killed at least 10 people and also left a trail of destruction in Rio de Janeiro.Also this week in Brazil, soldiers mistook a man's car for the vehicle of criminals and it was hit by 80 gunshots, killing him and wounding his wife's stepfather, according to Rio authorities.Female Bolivian officers introduced a litter of Golden Retriever puppies to be trained as police dogs, during a skills presentation of the K-9 unit. A girl and her father fed the pigeons in Havana on the day Communist Party leader Raúl Castro warned that Cubans should brace for worsening shortages due to Trump administration policies.Argentina's Racing Club soccer team celebrated winning their ninth national league trophy. Queratoro and Cruz Azul players wore blue noses as they walked onto the field for a Mexico soccer league match, to bring awareness and support autism month in April. Brazil's Flamengo defeated Bolivia's San Jose 6-1 in Rio de Janeiro. Julian Quinonez of Colombia's Deportes Tolima kneeled down on the field after Brazil's Atletico Paranaense scored their winning point at a Copa Libertadores soccer match in Curitiba, Brazil. A runner wearing a dinosaur costume took part in a marathon in Santiago, Chile.In Uruguay's capital, people held up image the disappeared from the country's military dictatorship. And a ferry boat that collided with a bridge pillar caused part of a bridge to collapse in the Moju River in the Brazilian state of Para.Supporters of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange protested his arrest in Quito, after Ecuador's President Lenin Moreno allowed British authorities to forcibly remove Assange from Ecuador's small embassy in London.___Gallery edited by photo editor Leslie Mazoch in Mexico City. On Twitter @LeslieMazoch
They are sports that bring in little in the way of money or notoriety or attention compared with the behemoths, football and basketball.In college athletics, volleyball, water polo, sailing, tennis and soccer are relatively small-time affairs that don’t fill stadiums or drive billion-dollar media contracts, and that is why they are at the center of what was described as the broadest college admissions fraud the Justice Department has uncovered.Just like the high-profile sports like football and basketball, coaches in the so-called Olympic sports are generally allowed to reserve several slots each year for students who might not otherwise gain admission. These slots are often in addition to those reserved for the truly elite athletes who receive athletic scholarships or their equivalent at the most selective universities.The Justice Department investigation revealed how this alternative admission path can be exploited and corrupted, especially at the dozen elite universities that were a target.Unlike in football and basketball, there is little in the way of formal rankings or general knowledge about who might be good at what are seen as minor sports, so admissions officials usually have to take coaches at their word when they tell them that an applicant is worthy of a spot on a volleyball or soccer or sailing team, leaving them open to exploitation.That is more difficult to do in big sports. “In basketball and football, it’s out there in the open, compared to the less financially driven sports,” said Corey Evans, a basketball recruiting analyst at Rivals, the recruiting website.[Several college coaches were named in the federal indictment Tuesday. Read more about each of them.]In short order Tuesday, the sailing coach at Stanford was fired. The U.C.L.A. men’s soccer coach was placed on leave, as was the Wake Forest women’s volleyball coach, and the men’s tennis coach at the University of Texas. J.B. Bird, a university spokesman, said Texas was “cooperating fully with the investigation. Integrity in admissions is vital to the academic and ethical standards of our university.” The university stated it believed Coach Michael Center’s actions did not involve “any other university employees or officers.”The water polo coach at the University of Southern California, Jovan Vavic, who has won 16 national championships, was fired after he was arrested at his hotel room early Tuesday morning in Hawaii, where he had traveled with the top-ranked women’s team for a match.The practice of reserving spots for athletes in minor sports has grown in recent years, people involved with college sports say, as more colleges have committed to pursuing excellence in every activity, from the chemistry lab to the tennis courts. Also, as the population continues to grow, slots at the most selective colleges are more competitive than ever.Stanford University said that last year, 47,450 students applied for admission, and the university accepted just 2,040. The acceptance rate of 4.29 percent was the lowest in Stanford’s history. No wonder, according to the complaint, the prominent Massachusetts real estate developer John B. Wilson paid hundreds of thousands of dollars in 2018 to secure a spot for his daughter at Stanford.Federal prosecutors did not charge students or universities with wrongdoing.At the heart of the scheme was William Singer, who, between 2011 and 2018, collected $25 million from parents to bribe coaches, and encouraged them to go to great lengths to falsely present their children as the sort of top-flight athletes that coaches would want to recruit.According to the indictment, Singer fabricated athletic “profiles” of the students to submit with their applications, which contained teams the students had not played on and fake honors not won. One student sat on a rowing machine to pass herself off as a rower. Singer’s associates also photoshopped the faces of the applicants onto images of athletes found on the internet.Kathy DeBoer, the executive director of the American Volleyball Coaches Association, said “people in the volleyball community know who the elite athletes are, but there isn’t enough of a spectator base at most places.”
DUBLIN — The entire board of Irish soccer's governing body has decided to step down by July in the wake of a furore over an undisclosed 100,000 euro (£86,371) loan, Transport Minister Shane Ross said on Tuesday.The Football Association of Ireland (FAI) acknowledged last week it had broken state funding rules by failing to tell authorities about the short-term loan made by its former chief executive, John Delaney, in 2017.In a filing to Ireland's Companies Registration Office published on Tuesday, the FAI's auditors Deloitte also said the 98-year old association's accounts were not being properly kept, contravening two sections of Irish company law. "It is clearly time for a regime change," Ross said as he announced details of the planned mass resignation. The Association had set out the plans in a letter to the government, he added."Given the ever growing lack of public confidence in the FAI, this move is to be welcomed and is hopefully the first step on the road to rebuilding trust in this important national governing body," Ross told a parliamentary committee.Sport Ireland, the government's sport coordination body, suspended all state funding to the Association last week, saying the body had failed to tell it about the financial troubles the loan was meant to ease. The FAI said it needed the cash to relieve cash-flow issues and avoid breaking its 1.5 million euro overdraft limit. It said it paid back the loan two months later.ANGER AND CONCERNSport Ireland Chairman Kieran Mulvey told the committee that the terms of reference audit firm Mazars was preparing into an "extensive investigation" into FAI would also include board expenses and payments to third parties.The Sunday Times newspaper, which first reported details of the loan, reported on Sunday that Delaney spent almost 40,000 euros on his work credit card in the space of six months shortly before he had to personally bail out the association.Citing credit card statements, it said the charges included duty-free purchases, meals in Delaney's local pub and cash withdrawals of more than 6,000 euros. The FAI and Delaney's solicitor did not respond to questions from Reuters over whether the alleged use of the credit card contravened its rules. Prime Minister Leo Varadkar, who criticised Delaney for refusing to answer questions about the loan at a parliamentary committee last week, said on Tuesday the government shared the concern of taxpayers and anger of fans at how the FAI has been run and more investigations were needed.Delaney, who was moved to a newly-created role of executive vice-president after it was first reported last month that he provided the FAI with the loan, offered on Monday to leave the governing body pending investigation.Two other long-standing members of the 11-person board also resigned on Monday. As a result of Deloitte's filing, the Companies Registration Office is now required to inform Ireland's corporate watchdog of the FAI's failure to keep adequate accounting records. The watchdog has already asked the FAI to explain the 2017 loan.
FIFA President Gianni Infantino held talks in Kuwait on Sunday about the country staging 2022 World Cup matches as he pushes to enlarge the Qatar tournament from 32 to 48 teams.After meeting with the emir of Kuwait and soccer officials, Infantino flew to Doha to see Qatari leaders on Monday about the prospect of overcoming the logistical and political complexities of adding 16 more teams to the hosting, which requires at least one additional Gulf country being used.FIFA maintains it is working jointly with Qatar on the viability of a 48-team tournament, but the concept is mired in complexities stemming from the boycott of Doha by neighbors. A FIFA internal report concluded last month that the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia cannot join the hosting unless they restore economic and travel ties with Qatar that were severed two years ago.FIFA instead turned to Kuwait and Oman, who have remained neutral in the diplomatic dispute, as potential hosts. But Oman's foreign minister last week said his country does not have time to prepare to host World Cup games, leaving Kuwait as the only current viable option to cope with the Nov. 21 through Dec. 18 tournament swelling to 80 games.Infantino met with Kuwait's ruler, Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah, National Assembly Speaker Marzouq Al-Ghanim and the management of the Kuwait Football Association, FIFA said in a statement. The discussions were "about football in the country in general, but also about the FIFA World Cup 2022," the world governing body said.FIFA's feasibility study into expanding the World Cup determined that two stadiums in at least one additional country were required to cope with the demands of extra games. Kuwait City's Jaber Al-Ahmad International Stadium has 60,000 seats but Sabah Al-Salem Stadium only 26,000 and requires upgrades.Ahead of Infantino arriving in Doha, Qatari officials held their first World Cup board meeting of the year on Sunday chaired by the ruling emir, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani."The latest Qatar 2022 developments were reviewed, including infrastructure projects, stadiums and security plans for the tournament," said Qatar's Supreme Committee for Delivery and Legacy.But those plans are in flux amid Infantino's determination to enlarge the tournament with less than four years to go until kickoff. Qatar is still working on a 32-team tournament as it completes eight stadiums over just a 30-mile radius in the tiny nation with just 2.7 million people, most of them foreign workers.Infantino said last week that he now believes there is only a 50% chance that the 2022 World Cup will see a fast-tracking of the jump to 48 teams that is already agreed to happen in 2026 when the United States, Canada and Mexico are joint hosts.After coming under pressure from human rights groups since winning FIFA's hosting rights vote in 2010, Qatar was forced to improve worker rights and improve labor conditions. FIFA has told potential new co-hosts they have to provide human rights guarantees, which have yet to be specified publicly.Qatar has an exemption that allows foreigners to drink alcohol, but Kuwait has a complete ban which could be problematic for FIFA, which has Budweiser as a major sponsor.FIFA has already had to adapt to cope with taking its showpiece tournament to the Middle East for the first time.While Qatar won a vote in 2010 on the basis of staging a June-July World Cup, FIFA shifted the tournament from its usual slot because of the fierce summer heat.
LIVERPOOL, England — Mohamed Salah has been here before. The edge of the opposition box, down Liverpool’s right-hand side, a defender snapping at his heels. A little burst of speed creates a touch, a glimmer of space. The ball is at his left foot. He touches it just a few inches in front of him.Mohamed Salah has scored this goal before. He seemed to score this goal almost continually last season: opening his body out, wrapping his foot round the ball, generating enough whip to carry it high, across the goalkeeper, arcing into the far corner. It is the goal that won him last year’s Puskas Award. It is the goal that at one point seemed to become his signature.The mechanics of it are still there. Now, he sets the ball just the same as he used to. He shapes his body just the same as he used to. He is, it is safe to assume, aiming for the same corner as he used to. This time, though, it is not quite enough. The ball curls, but it fades too soon. It picks up height, but too little. Jordan Pickford, Everton’s goalkeeper, barely moves. The ball drifts, welcome, into his arms.Salah missed more glaring opportunities than that as Liverpool, just as it had last week, visited a team desperate to see it fail and left with a goalless draw. The cost was a little higher this time around: A single point against Manchester United last week took Liverpool to the top of the Premier League table. The same result against Everton on a rain-specked Sunday left it a point behind Manchester City.Salah was not the only player who might have diverted the course of the game — Joel Matip and Fabinho, in particular, spurned their chances to become folk heroes — but he did it most often. Twice, once in each half, he raced clear, his feet a blur as he bore down on goal. Twice, his touch was heavy. Twice, his timing was awry. Pickford saved one; the defender Michael Keane stopped the other.But though they were his best chances, it was the first of them, the one that curled straight into Pickford’s hands, that was most symbolic of Salah’s campaign so far. Everything is almost exactly the same as it used to be, as it was in his unstoppable season last year, only it isn’t, not quite.It was, of course, unavoidable that Salah would be accused of suffering from what is popularly known as second-season syndrome. That is the unfortunate thing about setting quite so high a bar last season: even the slightest drop-off, or even the slightest perception of a drop-off, can be interpreted as an anticlimax.Anything other than a repeat of the improbable feats of his first season at Liverpool — 32 goals in 36 Premier League games, 44 in 52 in all competitions — would certainly be enough to invite criticism that his run of form had been an illusion.So it has proved. Salah has scored 17 goals in the Premier League in his 28 games this season. Good, of course; respectable, obviously, more than a goal in every two games; still a smart inclusion in the fantasy team, clearly. Is it a total bettered only by Sergio Agüero, putting Salah ahead of Harry Kane and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and the rest of the billions of dollars of strikers in the Premier League? O.K. But still, not quite the same. Not really.Salah, indeed, is a strange kind of busted flush. He was, according to his manager, Jürgen Klopp, “unplayable” as recently as four days ago, when he twisted and curdled the blood of Adam Masina, Watford’s left back, during a 5-0 win at Anfield. He has been criticized for disappearing in high-pressure games — not always wrongly — but in the one truly do-or-die game of Liverpool’s season so far, in the Champions League against Napoli, Salah scored the only goal. He is still his club’s leading scorer. Even at Goodison Park, even in the stalemate, it was abundantly clear that he was Liverpool’s greatest threat.That is not to say, though, that the criticism is entirely misplaced. Just as Salah is not a write-off because he has not managed to maintain his furious goal-scoring rate, it is hard to deny that he is not quite the force of nature he was for much of last year.Perhaps, in the early months of the season, there were mitigating circumstances: the lingering effects of that shoulder injury sustained in the Champions League final, the one that threatened his involvement in the World Cup and that hampered his performances in Russia.And perhaps, even as the injury has healed, its effects are still felt. Klopp dismisses any notions that Salah has lost confidence, but the heavy touches when he was once so deft, the slight stumbles when he was once so sure: they are the surefire signs.Salah’s newfound profile means he has to deal with the closer attentions of opposing defenders. He has had to do so, at times, in the absence of much creative assistance from Liverpool’s midfield, and for much of the year in a new position, too. He has not been able to pick up the burden when he is not quite as fluid, not quite as free as he used to be.There is no shame in that, of course. The number of goals he has scored despite all of that warrants respect, rather than scorn. The worry — from Klopp’s perspective, and from Liverpool’s — is that, in a title race that will probably be decided by the very finest of margins, what they need more than ever is the Salah of last year, the one who scored that same goal again and again, the one whose every touch seemed to be golden. If Liverpool is to overhaul Manchester City, if it is to end its 29-year wait for an English championship, it needs the player it had last season, rather than the one who is almost the same, but somehow, infinitesimally, not quite.
MANCHESTER, England — Jürgen Klopp was walking along the edge of the Old Trafford field, on his way from the locker room to speak to the assembled news media, when Liverpool’s fans spotted him.They had been corralled inside the stadium for 20 minutes or so after the final whistle, until the Manchester police had determined it was safe for them to be accompanied out. They had entertained themselves by singing, for a while, but had gradually fallen quiet, as if trying to work out their emotional reaction to the 0-0 draw they had just seen.And then Klopp appeared. As they lingered in the aisles, ringed by stewards, they turned to salute him. “Liverpool, top of the league,” they sang. Klopp had spent most of the afternoon with a deep-set scowl on his face, barking instructions at his players, bristling and bubbling with dissatisfaction.As he got closer, though, as he worked out what they were singing, he put one hand on his heart — on the Liverpool crest on his top — and, with the other, offered a little wave. He beamed that broad, warm smile, the one that makes him look a little like a happy shark. It lingered even as he turned away, before he got serious again.Liverpool’s day was a little like that, somewhere between a scowl and a smile.A draw with Manchester United meant a return to the top of the Premier League table, ahead of Manchester City by a single point, with 11 games left to play.It meant Klopp’s players have now faced the most daunting fixture of their run-in: against England’s most in-form team — United remains unbeaten domestically since Ole Gunnar Solskjaer replaced José Mourinho — and a club fizzing with motivation to see Liverpool fail. That point represented an obstacle cleared.There was no great sense of relief, though, no untamed glee among the traveling fans. The point also represented an opportunity lost, against a United team frayed by injury. Anthony Martial sat in the stands, not fit enough to be involved; Nemanja Matic was ruled out after picking up an injury in training.By halftime, Solskjaer had been forced to use all three of his substitutes, too, with Ander Herrera, Juan Mata and Jesse Lingard — a substitute himself — all limping off. Marcus Rashford, clearly in discomfort for much of the game, was forced to swallow a couple of painkillers and carry on.United’s midfield, for more than an hour, consisted of Scott McTominay and Andreas Pereira, callow youth forced to bear the responsibilities of grizzled experience. Liverpool would rarely have faced a United team with such threadbare resources, with quite so many square pegs in round holes. It would rarely have found fate smiling so kindly at Old Trafford. That point stood as proof, too, of Liverpool’s failure to profit from United’s troubles.But then Liverpool’s season has been a little like that: elusive, fuzzy, difficult to discern and define, as noteworthy for what it is missing as what is present.The raw numbers, of course, are enormously impressive: just one defeat all year — at Manchester City, right at the start of January, still likely the most significant result of the campaign — and more points than it has ever had at this stage of the Premier League. More points, indeed, than all but a handful of teams have had at this stage of the season.Liverpool has the best defense in the country, comfortably ahead of Manchester City’s in goals surrendered; Virgil van Dijk would be a contender for the various player of the year awards, a rarity for a defender. Only City has scored more goals.The best gauge of how impressive Liverpool has been, though, is that with two-thirds of the season gone, it remains ahead of a City team so good that Pep Guardiola, its coach, has spent a good part of the last week batting off questions about whether it can win all four trophies — the mythical, unprecedented quadruple — this season. (It picked up the first on Sunday, beating Chelsea on penalties in the E.F.L. Cup final.) City is a team that picked up 100 points in winning the title last year, and has, at various points, been deemed to be even better this time around. All of that, and Liverpool is still on top.And yet Liverpool does not look like a team capable of all of that: not just here, against a weakened Manchester United, but for considerable swaths of the season, too. City has a swagger and a panache and an irresistibility; Liverpool, on all but a few occasions, has seemed to toil for every goal and every point and every win.
This photo gallery highlights some of the top news images made by Associated Press photographers in Latin America and the Caribbean that were published in the past week.A former president of Peru, Alan Garcia, killed himself as he was about to be arrested in a corruption case tied to the Brazilian construction company Odebrecht, while ex-Peruvian President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski was hospitalized as he faces a similar investigation.Roman Catholics participated in Holy Week observances across Latin America at the approach of Easter Sunday.On the Colombia-Venezuela border, Venezuelans crossed illegally into the neighboring nation near the Simon Bolivar International Bridge, where Venezuela's government is allowing only students, seniors and the sick to cross. People in Venezuela's capital saw the first delivery of humanitarian aid brought in by the International Red Cross.Young students from poor communities received instruction in the intricacies of classical ballet in Chorrillos, a poor neighborhood of Peru's capital.Police and demonstrators clashed near Ecuador's presidential palace during a protest against the policies of President Lenin Moreno's government. Panamanians prepared to hold general elections May 5.In Cuba, international artists showcased new works at the Havana Biennial, which is meant to foster art appreciation among the public.Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro stood at attention in the rain during a ceremony in Rio de Janeiro marking Army Day. In Sao Paulo, teams competed in the Red Bull Soapbox Race.In soccer, Victor Santos of Brazil's Flamengo celebrated after scoring in a Copa Libertadores match, while coach Miguel Faria of Mexico's Cruz Azul gestured his anguish at his team failing to score in a Mexican soccer league game.___Gallery edited by photographer Dieu Nalio Chery in Port-au-Prince, Haiti.Follow him on Twitter at @CheryHaiti
NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE, England — Bill Corcoran is in his usual spot, in the shadow of St. James’ Park, opposite Shearer’s bar, rattling his bucket, when a pack of a dozen Manchester United fans marches past.They are wearing black jackets, hoods raised to stave off the cold. Just as they reach Corcoran, they launch into a deeply unflattering, mildly profane chant about the man after whom the bar is named: Alan Shearer, favorite son of both Newcastle the city and Newcastle the team. A few home fans jeer in response. The heckling just makes the interlopers sing louder.Toward the tail of the group, one man spots Corcoran, and veers in his direction. He pulls his wallet from his pocket, and leafs through a fistful of green, orange and purple notes.“Who are you collecting for, mate?” he asks. His accent is broad Mancunian. “Newcastle fans’ food bank,” Corcoran replies, his vowels unmistakably North Eastern.The man pauses. He shuffles the bills, and chooses a purple £20. He slips it inside the bucket, and hurries after his group. He picks up the refrain effortlessly. He is back to taunting Shearer, and Newcastle, before Corcoran has even had a chance to thank him.Over the next hour or so, dozens of fans stop at the same spot. Some donate money. Some come bearing bags of groceries, filled to the brim with canned fruit and breakfast cereals and dried pasta, to be dropped off at the makeshift booth behind Corcoran.Today is not a special occasion: the same thing happens every time Newcastle plays at home. So acute is the hunger in Newcastle now, so intense is the demand, that Corcoran, and a handful of other volunteers, do this every two weeks.Everything they raise — and they have raised a lot, somewhere in the region of £200,000 ($258,000), they believe — is sent to the West End Food Bank, in one of Newcastle’s most deprived areas. It is the largest institution of its kind in Britain. “We can’t have people in this city starving,” Corcoran said. “It is a badge of shame.”That dire state of affairs is not, though, unique to Newcastle. The demand for food banks in Britain has soared in recent years: the Trussell Trust, which runs more than 400 such programs, said it distributed some 1.3 million food parcels from its centers in the fiscal year ending in March, an increase of 13 percent.The spike, the charity’s chief executive, Emma Revie, said last year, can be attributed to the fact that too many people do not have “enough money coming in to cover the rising cost of absolute essentials like food and housing.”Earlier this month, the government’s Environmental Audit Committee warned lawmakers that more than two million people in Britain could be considered “food insecure,” meaning they struggle to eat regularly and healthily. Philip Alston, the United Nations’ special rapporteur for extreme poverty and human rights, described the problem as a “social calamity” on a fact-finding mission to Britain last year.And so, across the country, the same thing has happened: soccer, and in particular its fans, has stepped into the breach. Newcastle’s is not the only food drive; Corcoran and his colleagues said they took their inspiration from a similar initiative that started in Liverpool in 2015. Celtic fans have been running one in Glasgow for years. In recent months, fans in Manchester, Sunderland and London — among others — have done the same.In front of stadiums filled with multimillionaire superstars,  fans have taken it upon themselves to help those who need it most.“I like to feel I am doing my bit to give something back,” said Sandra Farn, as she dropped off a donation at the booth behind Corcoran. She and her son, Alex, drive the two hours from Nottingham for every Newcastle home match. They stop at a supermarket first, and load up. That, now, is part of the ritual of going to a game.Jonathan Yaseen comes to Newcastle games with his 15-year-old son, Zain, but also, usually, only after stopping at a local store for rice, cookies and canned fish. “He has asked me before why we are having to do this,” Yaseen said. “It is hard to explain.” 
BERLIN — Bayern Munich's 5-0 thrashing of Borussia Dortmund in their top-of-the-table clash left the Bavarians one point clear with six games left and a huge psychological advantage.Here are five talking points from the Bundesliga weekend: VAR BITES BACK AT SCHALKESchalke 04 were given a video assistant referee (VAR) let-off which surprised even themselves but were not so lucky the second time as a stoppage-time penalty handed them a 2-1 home defeat by Eintracht Frankfurt.Eintracht forward Ante Rebic went down in the area in the first half and, although most observers felt it was a clear penalty, the referee decided otherwise after consulting the pitchside screen."VAR doesn't give Frankfurt a penalty. We're not sure why not," conceded Schalke's Twitter feed.But there was a different outcome in stoppage time when Daniel Caligiuri was judged to have handled in the box and Luca Jovic converted to give Eintracht a 2-1 win."Caligiuri was pushed, then the ball bounced off his shoulder and against his hand," said Schalke coach Huub Stevens.The defeat left Schalke in 14th, five points clear of VfB Stuttgart who are in the relegation playoff spot. Eintracht, unbeaten since the winter break, are fourth and on course to qualify for the Champions League next season.JOVIC STEPS UP IN HALLER'S ABSENCEEintracht's regular penalty taker Sebastien Haller was missing through injury but, despite never having taken a penalty in the Bundesliga before, 21-year-old Jovic had no hesitation in stepping up to accept the responsibilityThe Serb coolly converted for his 17th league goal of the season and made a small slice of history in the process -- officially timed as being scored in the 99th minute, it was the latest-ever penalty in Bundesliga history.BAYERN COACH SINGLES OUT DORTMUND WEAKNESSSoccer coaches rarely single out individual weakness in the opposition but Bayern Munich's Nico Kovac broke with convention and pointed the finger at Borussia Dortmund's Dan-Axel Zagadou after their 5-0 win.Zagadou set up the second goal when his back pass fell to Roberto Lewandowski -- something Kovac said he saw coming.
BANGKOK — Two Australian cave divers who were instrumental in the rescue last year of 12 Thai boys and their soccer coach from a flooded cave received on Friday a royal honor from King Maha Vajiralongkorn in a ceremony in Bangkok.The “Wild Boars” soccer team, aged between 11 and 16, and their 25-year-old coach became trapped on June 23 while exploring the cave complex in the northern province of Chiang Rai when a rainy season downpour flooded the tunnels.A 17-day effort to rescue them gripped the world with experts from various countries volunteering to help.Richard Harris and Craig Challen were members of the main rescue team, made up of 13 foreign divers and five Thai navy divers, that brought the boys and their coach out to safety.They received the Most Admirable Order of the Direkgunabhorn at Bangkok's Government House before meeting Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha in their first trip back to Thailand since the rescue.They will travel to Chiang Rai and return to the Tham Luang cave on Monday to meet the boys and their coach."That's really exciting for us to go and see them and make sure they're well and see how they're doing after the rescue," Harris said.Harris, a physician specializing in anesthesia, was responsible for sedating the boys before they were brought out one-by-one on a rescue stretcher through flooded tunnels.The pair were in January named Australians of the Year, one of Australia's highest honors.King Vajiralongkorn has conferred various honors on 187 people in connection with the rescue, 113 of them foreigners including Tesla Inc Chief Executive Elon Musk, who were involved in the effort, according to the Royal Gazette in March.A former Thai navy diver died during the rescue.  (Reporting by Panu Wongcha-um and Panarat Thepgumpanat; Editing by Robert Birsel)
SAO PAULO — Brazilian soccer great Pele has successfully undergone surgery for the removal of a kidney stone in a Sao Paulo hospital.The Albert Einstein Hospital said on its website Saturday that Pele's surgery went well, but did not provide additional details.The 78-year-old was hospitalized in Brazil on April 2 after spending five days in a Paris hospital for a urinary infection.He had been in France to attend an event with forward Kylian Mbappe.Pele has been in the hospital frequently over the last few years for kidney and prostate problems.
The soccer star, whose new book is “Wolfpack,” began the sport because of a how-to guide from the library. “I scored 27 goals in my first three games. I guess I do owe it all to books.”What was the last truly great book you read?“Love Warrior,” by Glennon Doyle. It helped me get sober and love myself again. I’ve never read writing so honest and raw. I loved that book so much I married the author.What’s your favorite thing to read? And what do you avoid reading?Favorite thing to read: nonfiction. Avoid reading: anything with dragons or wizards.What books are on your nightstand?An advance copy of “Mary Magdalene Revealed: The First Apostle, Her Feminist Gospel & the Christianity We Haven’t Tried Yet,” by Meggan Watterson. It’s about the Gospel left out of the Bible — and buried in the Egyptian desert after a fourth-century command that all copies of it be destroyed — significant because it is written from a woman’s point of view, emphasizes that all humans are divine and insists that there is no need for middlemen between people and God. Since I’m still trying to detox from the homophobia, misogyny and mind control I internalized from growing up in the Catholic Church, I’m excited to dive into this one.Are there books that inspire you as an athlete? Any sportswriters you especially respect?When I read Andre Agassi’s “Open,” it was the first time I witnessed an athlete admitting to humanity and mistakes. After I retired, I was struggling hard with addiction. I wanted to write about it honestly but I was afraid that it might ruin my legacy as a sports hero or stain the reputation of the National Team. The first time I met my wife, I told her about my conflict and she said: I don’t know anything about the sports world, but here in the real world, we like real people. If you’re honest and you learn from your struggle — the world will love you more, not less. She and Agassi inspired me to write honestly in “Forward.” I’m glad I did, because it freed me to begin to live one life instead of two. Shamelessness freed me.What’s the most interesting thing you’ve learned from a book lately?“Good and Mad: The Revolutionary Power of Women’s Anger,” by Rebecca Traister, brought context to feelings I’ve had for a long time. During my soccer career, the difference between how the men’s team and women’s team were treated and paid was egregious. Even in years that the women brought in more revenue and bigger championships, the men were paid dramatically more. Because we are women, we were conditioned to just be grateful for the crumbs we were handed instead of demand what we deserved. When I read “Good and Mad,” it made me fully understand that neither my experience nor my anger was unique. I was just taking my place in a long legacy of women fed up with unequal treatment. It made me consider that my anger about injustice is nothing to be ashamed of, it’s something to be harnessed to make change — just as the brave women of the National Team are doing right now with their gender discrimination lawsuit.What’s the last book that made you laugh?“I’m Judging You: The Do-Better Manual,” by Luvvie Ajayi. I’ve known Luvvie for a few years now and it’s important that we understand how unbelievably funny she is. She has the ability to write words that many of us think, but never say.The last book that made you furious?“Educated,” by Tara Westover. What a beautifully written book. Westover is a genius. Maybe we all are until we get it indoctrinated out of us like Westover did. “Educated” made me think about how dangerous it is to tell a child who she is and what the world is instead of giving her space to discover both on her own.
Cleared by a disciplinary panel of performing a Nazi salute, a Premier League soccer player was still criticized for his lack of knowledge about fascism and Adolf Hitler.Crystal Palace goalkeeper Wayne Hennessey was described by a Football Association commission as having displayed "a very considerable — one might even say lamentable — degree of ignorance about anything to do with" the Nazi regime.The 32-year-old Hennessey, who is from Wales, had denied giving a Nazi salute because, the commission said, "he said he did not even know what one was.""Improbable as that may seem to those of us of an older generation, we do not reject that assertion as untrue," it said. "All we would say (at the risk of sounding patronizing) is that Mr. Hennessey would be well advised to familiarize himself with events which continue to have great significance to those who live in a free country."A photograph posted on Instagram by Hennessey's teammate at Palace, German midfielder Max Meyer, showed Hennessey with his right arm raised and his left hand under his nose. The photo was taken during a team dinner following Palace's win over Grimsby in the FA Cup in January.The FA charged Hennessey, saying the gesture brought the game into disrepute and was an aggravated breach of rules because it included a "reference to ethnic origin and/or race and/or religion and/or belief."Hennessey argued in a hearing that he was waving and shouting to the person taking the photo — an Italian waiter — and put his hand over his mouth to make the sound carry. An independent panel came down on the side of Hennessey.The panel said it was not challenged by witnesses in the hearing that "Mr. Hennessey does have rather a loud voice and tends to be impatient."Hennessey also provided screenshots and photographs of him on a soccer field, showing him with his right or left arm "raised at a similar angle (presumably to attract the attention of the defense in front of him)," the panel said."That someone later misinterpreted the gesture," it said, "may illustrate the perils of social media and the need for people to be careful to avoid such a situation. It has certainly also revealed a disappointing ignorance on the part of Mr. Hennessey with important parts of our culture and history."But that does not amount to proof that he has committed what would otherwise be a serious breach of (the rules)."______
BANGKOK — Two Australian doctors were given royal honors in Thailand on Friday for helping rescue a boys soccer team from a flooded cave and said they are looking forward to a reunion with the youngsters they helped save.Richard Harris and Craig Challen were given the award at a ceremony presided over by Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha. Four Australian officials involved with the rescue effort were also honored.Both highly skilled divers, the doctors played key roles in rescuing members of the Wild Boars soccer team and their coach from the cave complex in Chiang Rai province last July.They said before the award ceremony they were looking forward to going to the northern province Monday to see how the boys are faring."That's really exciting for us to go and see them and make sure they're well and see how they're doing after the rescue," Harris said. "Hopefully we will find them in good shape."A mixed team of Thais and expert divers from a number of countries combined in the dramatic search and rescue mission carried out after the team went missing when heavy rain flooded the Tham Luang cave complex.The drama, which lasted 18 days, gripped the attention of the world.Harris and Challen, who in January were jointly named Australians of the Year, said that should it ever happen again, they were ready to reprise their operation." We have a little bit more experience now," Challen said. "We seem to be the world record holders in cave-diving rescues now."They also joked about one of the British rescue team members, Josh Bratchley, who this week had to be rescued himself from a cave in the United States, and said they had left humorous messages on his Facebook page."Well, it's been a matter of some hilarity with us really. I'm glad it wasn't us because that would have been very professionally embarrassing for us, I can say," Challen said. "We are looking forward to speaking to Josh and getting the true story."Their final message was one for all young people: Don't let what happened to the Wild Boars scare you off having fun."Those boys and the coach were extraordinarily unlucky to have been caught out in the cave," Harris said. "I hope that doesn't stop people enjoying adventures and kids really need to do those sorts of things."
MONTERREY, Mexico — The St. Louis Cardinals, Cincinnati Reds and all of Major League Baseball will have one big fan rooting for them when they come together this weekend at Estadio de Béisbol de Monterrey — Mexican President Andres Manuel López Obrador.López Obrador, who took the oath of office last December, is a devoted baseball fan and is trying hard to help the sport succeed in a country where soccer is still king.The Cardinals and Reds meet for games on Saturday and Sunday, and the Houston Astros and Los Angeles Angels will play another two-game series at the same ballpark in early May.But López Obrador wants baseball to be more than just a couple of big league sets every year."It's well known that baseball is my favorite sport, since I was a kid in my town there was nothing more than baseball," said the 65-year-old López Obrador, who has several videos on YouTube where he shows off a good swing. "I can still play, I can still hit above .300, I played center field when I was younger and had a good arm and covered a lot of ground."MLB began holding regular season games in Mexico in 1996 when the San Diego Padres and Mets played three times. The 1999 season opened with a matchup in Monterrey between the Padres and Colorado. Last May, the Padres and Los Angeles Dodgers played a three-game series at the stadium — Walker Buehler and the Dodgers bullpen combined for a no-hitter.All of those series were a success with sellouts in Monterrey.López Obrador put some action behind his passion and recently created Promobeis, a government office run by Édgar González, a former player who spent a couple of seasons as a Padres second baseman and was Mexico's manager at the World Baseball Classic.Among other things, Promobeis has a goal to have between 60 and 80 Mexican players in the majors. This season, only eight local players started the season on big league rosters, but González — brother of former All-Star Adrian González — believes that he can he can have success because there are over 160 Mexicans in the minors."I love the challenge, it's something that has never been done before and can be a success. I think it's easier to have more Mexican baseball players in the big leagues than players in the NFL. Besides, we believe that we can help to take kids away from the bad habits," González told The Associated Press."We believe that having more players in the majors will help us to grow the sport's popularity. Right now we have a little bit over 160 players in the minors, in the majors right now there are 10 because some of them are constantly been called up or sent down. It's a good number and I believe we can grow in the future and have more players signing with MLB clubs like the Puerto Ricans or the Dominicans," González said.To put the program in motion, González and Promobeis have a $17.5 million budget for 2019. The money will be invested in the opening of 10 baseball academies that are going to be administered by the government."It's going to be great if they support baseball like the president wants. You need to start early in the sport to be successful," said former big league slugger Vinny Castilla, considered one of the all-time great Mexican players. "Baseball is our president*s great passion and that's big news because for all of us that love the sport, he is going to support the sport as much as he can."The idea of having more Mexican players in the big leagues as a way to boost the sport's popularity in the country is not new. MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred has spoken about it on several occasions as a big factor for the country to be considered like a candidate for an expansion franchise in the future.Besides López Obrador's ideas, another door to the majors opened for the Mexicans last March. That's when MLB announced an agreement with the Liga Mexicana de Béisbol that allows all players who are under contract to an LMB team to be able to sign with any MLB club as long the player is at least 25 years old or has six or more years of professional baseball experience abroad.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has spent much of his time as Manchester United manager harking back to the club's trophy-laden past under Alex Ferguson.Now it's time to focus on the future — and he knows it.United's 4-0 aggregate loss to Barcelona in the Champions League quarterfinals highlighted just how far England's biggest club remains behind the best in Europe, six years after Ferguson's retirement."I've said all along this isn't going to change overnight," Solskjaer said, "and the next few years are going to be massive for us to get to the level where Barcelona and other teams are at the moment."The so-called "new-manager bounce" provided by Solskjaer's arrival in December as the replacement for Jose Mourinho masked the frailties that still existed in United's team. From 14 wins — and only one loss — in his first 17 matches in charge, when United arguably overperformed, Solskjaer has now presided over five losses in his last seven games.United is out of the Champions League and might not get back into the competition next season after dropping to sixth place in the Premier League.So, the questions are coming thick and fast: Was United hasty in making Solskjaer its permanent manager on the back of his successful three months as interim coach? How much does United need to spend in the offseason to build a squad capable for challenging for the big titles? Will Paul Pogba still be at United next season? Does United need a director of football?"We've got a rebuilding job," Solskjaer said after the 3-0 loss to Barcelona in the second leg on Tuesday.SOLSKJAERWith his permanent smile and positive outlook, the Norwegian coach has been a breath of fresh air at United following the gloomy final months of the Mourinho era. His regular and sentimental references to the glory days under Ferguson — in which he played a major part — endeared him even more to fans.At first, he was a caretaker manager but the clamor to hire him on a permanent basis became so intense that United's American ownership relented and gave him a three-year deal on March 28. His results up to that point possibly merited it, but United could have waited until the end of the season.United is currently on its worst run of results this season and some of Solskjaer's selections are being scrutinized — for example, left back Luke Shaw playing as a left-sided center back in the first leg against Barcelona and center back Victor Lindelof as a right back in the second leg. Many fans wonder why Ashley Young is still being picked.Solskjaer's favored counterattacking approach worked perfectly in United's hot streak, but the team often had little control. Can he change his style of play to adapt to all types of games?OFFSEASON TARGETSThe squad clearly needs a shake-up, especially in defense where the much-criticized Young continues to play as an out-of-position full back. Center backs Chris Smalling and Phil Jones are still there, too, eight years after being members of the United team that lost 2-1 to Basel to get eliminated from the group stage of the Champions League.
Lauren Sara Wiley and Nathan Mark Terrazas were married April 13 at the South Congress Hotel in Austin, Tex. Rabbi Monty Eliasov officiated, with the Rev. Rob Hall, an auxiliary bishop of the Old Catholic Diocese of Uniformed Services, taking part.Mrs. Terrazas, 27, is a speech language pathologist at a private practice in Austin. She is also a Pilates instructor at Solidcore in Austin. She graduated from Northwestern, from which she also received a master’s degree in speech, language and learning.She is the daughter of Audrey B. Wiley and Richard B. Wiley of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. The bride’s father, who is retired, worked in the sales division at BMW in Mount Kisco, N.Y. Her mother, who works in Armonk, N.Y., is an administrator in the winter office of both Tripp Lake Camp, an all-girls sleep-away camp in Poland, Me., and Camp Takajo, an all-boys sleep-away camp in Naples, Me.Mr. Terrazas, 31, is a product specialist at ePayPolicy, a payment processor to the insurance industry in Austin. He graduated from DePaul University. He is the son of Elisa Terrazas and Mark Terrazas of Lansing, Ill. The groom’s mother is a cosmetologist in private practice in Munster, Ind. His father is a chief building engineer for SodexoMagic, an engineering firm in Chicago.The couple met in summer 2012 while they were working at Camp Takajo. She was a tennis counselor and he a soccer counselor. They bonded over their love of Chicago and the groom’s Australian shepherd, Roo.
MONROVIA, Liberia — A spokesman says Liberia's president is working from home after two snakes were found in the building that contains his office.Deputy press secretary Smith Toby tells The Associated Press that former international soccer star and President George Weah was told to stay away until the Foreign Affairs building can be fumigated. He is expected back in the office on Monday.The black snakes were seen this week briefly emerging from a hole in a wall of the building's reception area. Liberia is home to poisonous snakes and officials are not taking chances.The deputy press secretary says the fumigation has begun to take care of "crawling and creeping things."Weah, who was FIFA's 1995 player of the year, assumed the presidency in January 2018.
The best player in baseball is closing in on the richest contract in the history of North American sports. Mike Trout, the center fielder for the Los Angeles Angels, is finalizing a contract extension that will be worth about $430 million and keep him with the team through 2030, according to two people who were briefed on the deal but were not authorized to comment publicly.However the deal is calculated — either an additional $360 million over 10 years or the Angels’ total commitment of about $430 million for the next 12 years — Trout has eclipsed the previous record for guaranteed money: the 13-year, $330 million deal Bryce Harper signed this month with the Philadelphia Phillies.The extension, which was first reported by ESPN, would establish Trout as the highest-paid baseball player on an annual basis, topping the $34.4 million Zack Greinke is earning from the Arizona Diamondbacks on a six-year, $206.5 million contract signed in December 2015.[From 2017: Mike Trout, Baseball’s Best Without the Brand]While it is an enormous amount of money, even this record-breaking contract doesn’t necessarily bring Trout into the highest tier of overall income for professional athletes.While comparing contracts across sports and continents is an inherently difficult undertaking because of varied contractual structures, tax burdens, bonuses and ancillary benefits, it is clear that even with the monster deal Trout would fall well short of becoming the world’s highest paid athlete annually.The soccer superstar Lionel Messi, for example, is expected to earn more than 106 million euros (about $120 million) per year from Barcelona through 2021, an amount that could rise to 120 million euros if certain incentives are met. The boxer Canelo Álvarez will earn at least $73 million annually from a five-year deal with the streaming service DAZN.Trout, 27, also won’t have the highest annual salary in North American team sports. In the N.B.A., Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors is making $37.5 million this season, and the Houston Rockets’ James Harden will earn $42.3 million annually once his four-year, $169.3 million contract extension kicks in.The highest-paid N.F.L. player, Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers, earns a bit less than Trout is expected to: an average of $33.5 million from a four-year, $134 million contract (though only $98.7 million of that is guaranteed). Unlike Major League Baseball, the N.F.L. and N.B.A. have salary caps.Compared with superstars in other sports, Trout has a limited ability to earn money outside the game. Baseball players typically aren’t as well-known nationally or internationally as their counterparts in other major sports, and Trout’s lack of marketability has been lamented by M.L.B. Commissioner Rob Manfred.Trout does have a number of endorsement deals with companies including Rawlings and Nike, and in 2014 he became of the first baseball player since Ken Griffey Jr. to get a Nike signature cleat. But baseball players’ ability to move merchandise pales in comparison to that of a basketball player or a soccer player, and endorsement contracts reflect that.Trout earns an estimated $2.5 million from endorsements annually, according to Forbes. Kevin Durant’s endorsement deal with Nike alone is worth up to $300 million over 10 years, while Harden will earn $200 million over 13 years from Adidas. LeBron James of the N.B.A. and Cristiano Ronaldo, the Portuguese soccer star for Juventus, have lifetime deals with Nike that are rumored to be worth $1 billion each.While a handful of athletes earn more from their contracts annually than Trout, those individuals almost assuredly will not be doing so in 2030, the final year of Trout’s deal. N.B.A. contracts last a maximum of five years, and with a few exceptions, soccer contracts are rarely longer than that, either. Boxers typically earn their money fight to fight, while golf and tennis players simply claim a share of tournament prize money.But in 2030, no matter how Trout’s baseball career progresses, he will earn at least $36 million — a priceless long-term assurance.He has earned the payout by putting together seven astounding seasons to begin his career; the most similar players, production-wise, at his age, according to Baseball Reference, have been the Hall of Famers Frank Robinson, Ken Griffey Jr. and Mickey Mantle. Trout has won two American League Most Valuable Player Awards and been the runner-up four times. His career batting average is .307 and he is the majors’ active leader in on-base plus slugging percentage, at .990.
Here's your look at highlights from the weekly AP photo report, a gallery featuring a mix of front-page photography, the odd image you might have missed and lasting moments our editors think you should see.This week's gallery includes boys playing soccer in the historic Kasbah of Algiers, Algeria; a horse-drawn carriage traveling next to a highway in Frankfurt, Germany; and waves crashing against a line of trees in Minnesota.___This gallery contains photos from the week of April 6-12, 2019.See the latest AP photo galleries: https://apimagesblog.com___Follow AP photographers on Twitter: http://twitter.com/AP/lists/ap-photographersVisit AP Images online: http://www.apimages.com http://www.apimages.com/___This gallery was produced by Patrick Sison in New York.
LONDON — The long-running British TV soap "Coronation Street" is welcoming its first black family in its 59-year history.The soap opera is set to introduce the Baileys, a family with two sons. It will explore themes of racism and homophobia in sport, with a story line featuring one of the sons, a soccer player, coming out as gay.The show has charted the goings-on in the fictional northern England community of Weatherfield since 1960. It has cast individual black characters but not brought in a black family together before.Producer Iain MacLeod said Saturday he didn't really know why it has taken so long, but it "did feel sort of overdue we did this and represented modern Manchester a bit more accurately."
TOKYO — For fans, athletes, and volunteers, next year's Tokyo Olympics could become known as the get-up-early games.Hoping to beat the summer heat in the Japanese capital, organizers said Tuesday they will start the men's 50-kilometer race walk final at 5:30 a.m. The men's and women's marathon finals go at 6 a.m.Marathon swimming will kick off at 7 a.m., and the men's and women's triathlon start at 7:30 a.m.Even women's softball has some games scheduled for 9 a.m. No men's baseball games will start before noon."9 a.m. is early, that's my impression," said Reika Utsugi, the head coach of Japan's women softball team, speaking through an interpreter. "But we will have one year for the preparation. Softball cannot decide the times."Softball and baseball were dropped after the 2008 Olympics, and are appearing because of the sports' popularity in Japan.The 1964 Tokyo Olympics were held in the fall and did not face heat problems. But modern Olympics can no longer be held in that timeframe, needing to avoid Europe's crowded soccer schedule, and year-round scheduling of the big four sports in the United States — football, baseball, basketball and hockey.Koji Murofushi, the sports director of the Tokyo Games and a Japanese Olympic gold medalist, said organizers had consulted about the schedule with the International Olympic Committee, the governing bodies of the sports, and athletes and medical experts. He said athletes can adapt."When we look at the Olympic games as a whole, of course we need to consider the global audience and adjust and control the overall schedule," Murofushi said, speaking through an interpreter. "Athletes, when they know the schedule in advance, can make an adjustment to prepare."As previously announced, the swimming finals will begin at 10:30 a.m. The swim schedule has nothing to do with the heat and will follow the pattern of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. The morning schedule in Asia allows North American television to telecast the finals live in prime time in the evening.American broadcaster NBC in 2011 agreed to pay the IOC $4.38 billion for TV rights through the 2020 Games. It later agreed to an extension through the 2032 Olympics, paying the IOC an added $7.75 billion.Organizers say the first gold medal event will be the women's 10-meter air rifle, which will take place on July 25 — the day after the opening ceremony.Organizers have labeled Aug. 8 — the day before the closing ceremony — as "Super Saturday" with about 30 finals, the most of any single day. Finals will include men's basketball, men's soccer and men's baseball.The most difficult event to schedule might be surfing, which was added to the Tokyo Olympics. Organizers have blocked out eight days for the event, hoping surf's up for at least four of them. It's a four-day event."The competition schedule is subjected to change depending on the wave conditions," organizers said.
(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. 
(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. 
MANCHESTER, England — The first ball floated backward, spinning and arcing toward the net. For a second, it hung in the air, a foot or so above the white goal line. Manchester City, Liverpool, the Etihad Stadium crowd all held their breath.And then John Stones reached it, and sent it as far away from himself, from danger, as he could. Anthony Taylor, the referee, checked his watch for the goal-line technology reading that would determine if the entire ball had crossed the line before Stones reached it. He waited. Everyone waited.He shook his head. The slightest sliver of orange and purple leather had remained above the line — less than an inch. City could breathe again.The second ball — an hour or so later — traveled quicker, caught sweet by Leroy Sané’s left foot. It struck the sole of Trent Alexander-Arnold’s boot and flew past Alisson Becker’s outstretched hand. Its trajectory shifted, just enough. It struck the bottom of the far post, and skittered along the same white line. Another intake of breath. It clipped the foot of the near post. This time, Taylor did not need to look at his wrist.Fine lines, slender margins. Liverpool did not score, Manchester City did. Liverpool did not win, Manchester City did. It does not change everything: Liverpool remains at the top of the Premier League, four points clear of the reigning champion. But when the time comes to look back on this season, this result may have changed enough.That is how it felt when Taylor blew his whistle, confirming that Sané’s goal had been enough to seal a 2-1 victory for Pep Guardiola’s team, enough to end Liverpool’s 19-game unbeaten run, enough to evaporate the faint aura of invincibility that had started to attach itself to Jürgen Klopp’s team.Manchester City’s players sank to their knees in ecstasy. The stands bounced and heaved. Guardiola — just moments removed from berating Martin Atkinson, the fourth official, for some perceived error by Taylor — embraced his coaching staff, and hugged his players.[More from Rory Smith: David Silva, Manchester City’s Key Piece, Is Now More Valuable Than Ever]Later, Guardiola would be asked if his captain, Vincent Kompany, should have been sent off, instead of receiving just a yellow card, for a first-half foul on Mohamed Salah: another fine line, another slender margin. Guardiola did not want to contemplate such a question “on a night like this,” he said.This was the moment, manager and players and fans had decided, on which the whole season would turn, when the slightest differences could have seismic consequences. Guardiola had made clear, in the days beforehand, that this was a game Manchester City could not afford to lose.It would, he believed, be “impossible” to catch up to a team as good as Liverpool — maybe the best in the world, he called Klopp’s side, trying to kill his foe with kindness — if it won and secured a 10-point lead with 17 games to play.The fans clearly felt the same way. As City cantered to the championship last season, the Etihad was a contented, mellow sort of place — quietly confident in its own obvious superiority. There was little tension, no drama. Against Liverpool, under pressure, it was raucous and angry, possessed of the same manic energy that infused Guardiola’s players.By the end, that energy had transformed into jubilation. Trailing Liverpool by four points, as City does now, is hardly ideal; a month ago, most people connected to City would have been hard-pressed to even imagine such a situation. But when the damage could have been so much worse, it felt like a blessing. City can celebrate all that it has gained; it need not worry about the ground it had lost.Four points is a couple of bad afternoons over the course of five long months. Four points is a lapse of focus in the league because of the demands of the Champions League. Four points is an unfortunate injury, or a needless sending-off. It is the bounce of a ball. It is a fine line, a slender margin.It is particularly precarious now, in what the Premier League has become: a two-tier competition in which, every week, six elite teams demonstrate their superiority over what are in theory their peers, but their pawns in practice. The pace that Liverpool, Manchester City and Tottenham Hotspur — in third, just six points off the lead — have set this year has been historic.
In what the Justice Department called its largest ever college admissions prosecution, federal authorities charged 50 people on Tuesday with taking part in a nationwide scheme to game the admissions process at highly competitive schools like Yale and the University of Southern California. [The college admissions scandal has raised a lot of questions. We’ve answered them here.]Those charged include wealthy and powerful parents accused of paying millions of dollars in bribes, exam administrators and athletic coaches accused of manufacturing students’ achievements, and private admissions counselors accused of coordinating it all. At the center of the scandal are the Edge College & Career Network, also known as the Key, and a nonprofit organization, the Key Worldwide Foundation, that prosecutors say effectively were a single enterprise. They are accused of helping students cheat on standardized tests, and paying bribes to athletic coaches who could get the students into college using fake athletic credentials. [Read more on the Justice Department’s largest ever college admissions prosecution.][Read more about how the F.B.I. says parents cheated to get their children into elite colleges.]Federal prosecutors accused dozens of parents of paying millions of dollars in bribes to help their children secure spots at prestigious American universities. Athletic coaches from top colleges were also implicated and accused of accepting millions of dollars to help students gain admission.Teachers, test administrators and private instructors are named as co-conspirators in the federal charging documents. 
MANCHESTER, England — Sergi Roberto might have noticed Lionel Messi’s battle scars first: the slightly swollen nose, or the faint trace of a bruise, flowering around his left eye. Or he might have realized that the rest of the Argentine’s features were of far greater concern: Messi’s brow was furrowed. His face was set into a scowl. He was staring straight at his teammate. Roberto had let him down.His offense was one scuffed pass, a deflating climax to a wonderful, flowing move down Barcelona’s right flank. A better ball, a little more composure, and Messi would have had a glorious chance to double his team’s 1-0 lead — not necessarily enough to settle this Champions League quarterfinal, to doom Manchester United, but a significant tilting of the balance ahead of next week’s second leg in Barcelona at the Camp Nou.It was, in Roberto’s defense, an aberration. Until that point, he had offered poise and drive since coming on as a substitute for Arthur, the Brazilian midfielder; he had improved Barcelona considerably.By that stage, though, Messi was in no mood to consider mitigating circumstances. His frustration had been building for an hour or so — with himself, with his teammates, with what he very clearly felt was an overly physical approach from United’s defenders and an excessively lenient one from Gianluca Rocchi, the Italian referee. Through his war wounds, Messi subjected Roberto to his sternest glare.Whenever Barcelona sweeps into town, it carries with it certain expectations. Barcelona is style and it is beauty. It is treasuring the ball, cherishing possession, every touch perfect and every pass precise. It is attacking intent and artistic sensibilities. Home crowds may not come to enjoy it — they may, in fact, come specifically to disrupt it — but they expect at least to admire it, teeth gritted and breath taken.Much the same, of course, goes for watching Messi. He had not graced Old Trafford for more than a decade; United had not encountered him at all since 2011, when he orchestrated the defeat of Alex Ferguson’s team at Wembley in a second Champions League final.Old Trafford was ready for him on this day, though. When the teams were read out before kickoff, there were deafening, vituperative jeers for both Philippe Coutinho and Luis Suárez: both, in Mancunian eyes, can be considered forever tainted by their association with Liverpool. Messi’s name attracted a little opprobrium, too: not quite the howling chorus reserved for his teammates, but not too far-off. In his case, it felt a little like a compliment, as though stopping him would require not just the 11 individuals on the field, but the 76,000 or so in the stands, too.In some ways, then, Manchester United’s fans would leave the stadium, a couple of hours later, feeling as though they had done their job. Messi did create the game’s only goal — of course he did — with a darting run, a heavy touch, and an improvised cross for Suárez to head home (with the help of a final touch from Luke Shaw), but for long stretches he seemed subdued.He drifted out wide in search of space and success, but found neither. He dropped deep, to try to light some fire in Barcelona’s belly, but could muster only embers. There were moments, of course — such is the quality of player Messi has around him that there will always be moments — but they were fleeting: the goal itself, the product of two minutes of possession, with every visiting player touching the ball; chances in the first half for Coutinho and in the second, after another spell of endless possession, of what seemed a thousand passes, for Suárez.By the time Roberto had made his poor choice on the edge of Manchester United’s box, Messi was feeling frayed. He had not lived up to his own expectations, and neither had his team, though it is hard to separate which one of those is cause and which is consequence. Either way, Roberto’s errant delivery was the final straw. Messi glowered and glared.And yet, while this victory felt like it came despite — rather than because of — Barcelona’s performance, it was, nevertheless, a victory, and in some lights rather an impressive one.Barcelona did not play at all well for long stretches, and yet emerged with a lead, an away goal, and a sense that United had been kept at arm’s length with comparative ease. The home team, in fact, did not have a single shot on target; there were flurries of pressure, brief spells when Barcelona seemed to be teetering, only to be carried to safety by the nous and composure of Gerard Piqué, Clément Lenglet and Sergio Busquets.It was not what we expect of Barcelona — and judging from Messi’s reaction, it is not necessarily what Barcelona expects of itself — but it showcased many of the traits that the team that goes on to win this competition tends to possess: maturity, cunning, patience, control, and, most decisive of all, an ability to click, even if only briefly, and find a gear that an opponent cannot match.It is not a comparison that would be especially welcome in Catalonia, but in that sense it was a display straight out of the recent playbook of Barcelona’s archrival, Real Madrid: a sort of base level of organization, laced with enough individual talent to make a difference; a superiority that is not immediately visible, but that makes itself plain by the end.Perhaps that is no bad thing. For the last 10 years, Barcelona has always been the most stylish, the most gifted, the most compelling team in the Champions League. It is the most immediately recognizable, the one that inspires the most fear, the one that comes with the greatest expectations.
Good morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Although the California connections run deep throughout the sprawling college admissions scandal, the complex federal case is now playing out in Boston. My colleague, Kate Taylor, has been covering the court proceedings. Here, she reports on the latest: In a coup for prosecutors and possible bad news for other defendants in the sweeping college admissions fraud investigation, one of the parents charged in the case, Davina Isackson of Hillsborough, Calif., has agreed to plead guilty and to cooperate with the government, according to a person with knowledge of the case.Two other parents have said so far that they intend to plead guilty, and more will probably follow in the coming days. But Ms. Isackson’s agreement to cooperate is significant. Ms. Isackson and her husband, Bruce, a real estate developer, were accused of conspiring with William Singer, the college consultant at the center of the case, to bribe athletics officials in order to secure their daughters’ admission to U.C.L.A. and U.S.C. as athletic recruits.Prosecutors also accused them of paying Mr. Singer so that a proctor could correct their younger daughter’s answers on her ACT exam. The prosecutors have said that the Isacksons paid Mr. Singer a total of $600,000.[Catch up on all of The Times’s coverage here.]Mr. Singer has pleaded guilty to racketeering and other charges.The agreement to cooperate means that Ms. Isackson will share what she knows about the roles that officials at U.C.L.A. and U.S.C. played in the scheme and, if their cases go to trial, could testify against them. It also puts pressure on other parents charged in the recruitment scheme; if Ms. Isackson testifies that she believes her actions were wrong, it makes it harder for others to say that they thought that they were simply making innocent donations.One unusual aspect of the Isacksons’ case is that, according to the charging documents, their older daughter, Lauren, who was admitted to U.C.L.A. as a soccer recruit despite not being a top player, was required to participate on the team as a student-athlete for a year. She is listed on the 2017 roster as a midfielder. Most students involved in the case did not actually play on the teams they had been recruited for.Prosecutors say that, after Lauren Isackson was provisionally admitted to U.C.L.A., Mr. Singer directed $100,000 to a sports marketing company controlled by Jorge Salcedo, the former head men’s soccer coach at U.C.L.A. The government has charged Mr. Salcedo with conspiracy to commit racketeering, and he has pleaded not guilty.Davina Isackson could shed light on whether the coaches of the women’s soccer team were also in on the scheme. Amanda Cromwell, the head coach of women’s soccer at U.C.L.A. since 2013, did not respond to messages.Both Davina and Bruce Isackson will plead guilty to conspiracy to commit mail fraud and honest services mail fraud, according to the person with knowledge of the case. Mr. Isackson will also plead guilty to money laundering conspiracy and conspiracy to defraud the United States.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)
FRIDAY PUZZLE — I can’t help myself; I have one more column to write before I actually leave for the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament. After this, I’m really off, I swear.Brendan Emmett Quigley is back with an incredibly crunchy puzzle that may seem difficult to some. Mr. Quigley is known, in traditional venues and on his own website, for his unusual and amazingly fresh fill (he is known for debuting the cryptic phrase WHY YOU LITTLE nearly 20 years ago, clued as “Angry parent’s yell”). This puzzle is no different. We’ve got entries for everyone in this one, including a newly designated ailment called WIIITIS, which may have thrown a lot of solvers off with the three consecutive I’s. Before you say anything, it is a real thing that has even been written up in an actual medical journal. As a fan of the movie “Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse,” which plays with the MULTIVERSE theory by having several versions of the web-slinger converge from different dimensions, I also enjoyed the debut at 26A. — I also liked the throwback to the 1960s Italian film director CARLO PONTI.There’s a lot more to enjoy and learn about in Mr. Quigley’s puzzle, but I’m going to let you dig for treasure. It’s more fun that way. Then come back here and let’s go over a selection of the trickier clues. 20A: Well, sure. If someone came into my house and messed up the flooring, I would most likely shout, “MISLAYER!” all while pointing a “J’accuse!” finger at him.31A: A tough one for those who don’t speak Latin or didn’t go to law school, but it is Friday, so it’s time once again to familiarize ourselves with a new clue. I say “new clue” because the word ESSE has been in The New York Times Crossword 847 times, including this puzzle. So it’s not coming out of nowhere, but the clue seems new if you look at XWordInfo.com. As the clue says, “Auctor ESSE” means to “authorize, in legalese.”34A: A question for those who are in construction: Isn’t an H-BAR really an I-bar turned sideways? You can be honest with me. I won’t tell anyone.42A: Most people would recognize the Easter Island statues, but did you know they are really called MOAI?47A: Congratulations to the Italian soccer team JUVENTUS for making its New York Times Crossword debut.4D: We haven’t seen the word SKALDS in a while. They were ancient Norse bards or poets who recited poems of valor about their heroes. Sounds like a good gig.40D: I thought CARDI B would be a debut, but she’s been in the Crossword once before, in October 2018. Congratulations on that Grammy, Ms. B.Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. Your thoughts?
BOSTON — At 5 on a windy winter morning, in a cold, harshly lit warehouse in Boston’s seaport district, Baracat Paiva stared down at the 200-pound bigeye tuna before him and reached for his knives. Mr. Paiva, as tall and imposing as the dead fish before him, dipped his cloth-gloved hand in warm water, to keep his fingers from numbing. He deftly sharpened an eight-inch knife against a water stone before plunging it into the silver-scaled fish and sawing off the collar, using another, bigger knife to lop off the bone. A few bits of tuna sprayed off his knife and stuck to his hooded sweatshirt and flat-brimmed baseball cap, but he didn’t seem to notice.Then, in a single motion, he slid the knife down the length of the fish on one side, then made another slice on the other. After a few more strokes, he carefully peeled away the rib cage and splayed open the fish, which split into four neat sections. He picked up one of the fillets, brimming with burgundy-hued flesh, and bounced it around in his arms like a baby.“Beautiful,” he said.Mr. Paiva, the highest-volume fish cutter at the popular Boston wholesaler Wulf’s Fish, has become something of a celebrity at a job that normally doesn’t attract much attention. The videos of his cutting skills that he regularly posts on Instagram have drawn hundreds of thousands of views, and comments from admirers around the world who are mesmerized by his swift, graceful motions and the sheer size of the fish he breaks down. Mr. Paiva’s bravura personality is big, too. He often adds urgent background music, or shouts out his slogan: “Boom!” Occasionally, he’ll lick or kiss the fish, or cut out a small piece and eat it — theatrics that have won him comparisons to Salt Bae, the Turkish chef (real name: Nusret Gokce) famed online for playfully salting steaks. Some fans call Mr. Paiva “Fillet Bae.”Many of those followers might be surprised to know that little over a decade ago, Mr. Paiva (pronounced PIE-ay-vah) had never even touched a knife. He was a professional soccer player in Brazil.Mr. Paiva, 37, grew up surrounded by seafood; his hometown, Ilhéus, is on Brazil’s eastern coastline. But he was most interested in playing soccer. “Eighty percent of Brazilians are raised with a ball in their hands,” he said.At age 17, in 1998, Mr. Paiva was spotted by a talent scout and invited to become a goalie for Colo Colo de Futebol e Regatas, his town’s professional soccer club. He was the youngest player on the team.“I was living the dream,” he recalled­. Many people his age wanted to play soccer professionally, and the Brazilian teams are known the world over.But a few years later, at the prime of his career, he cracked his ribs trying to catch a ball, and a doctor told him he couldn’t play soccer anymore. “I was devastated,” Mr. Paiva said.In 2004 his father sent him to Norwich, Conn., to live with family friends and get his mind off soccer. Mr. Paiva found a job as a dishwasher at Jasper White’s Summer Shack, a seafood restaurant in the nearby Mohegan Sun casino.He worked his way up to shucking oysters. Then one day, his boss threw 100 pounds of bluefish onto the counter and showed him how to break them down into fillets.Fish cutting “was really unfamiliar to me,” Mr. Paiva said. “In Brazil, we eat everything whole, with the bones. But this was fun.” And he loved eating seafood.
NEW YORK — The future of NBA basketball could look like European soccer.Tournaments that take place during the season along with league games intrigue Commissioner Adam Silver as a way to change the format of the NBA's 82-game season.If it even keeps an 82-game season.Silver mentioned everything from shorter games to a shorter season Friday as ways the NBA could make its future product better for players and fans."The format we have in place now — I'm a traditionalist on one hand, but on the other hand it's 50 years old or so, presenting an 82-game season, and there's nothing magical about it," Silver said."I think it's on the league office to always be challenging the way we do things, to be paying attention to changing viewer habits, a changing marketplace, a new world of the way media is presented, often on smaller devices, less on screens, people having shorter attention spans, and saying, 'This is an incredible game, it's never been more exciting, the athleticism has never been greater, fantastic players coming from all around the world, but what's the best way to put the season together?'"Silver has focused on player health as commissioner, opening the regular season earlier to reduce the frequency of back-to-back games, and lengthening the All-Star break.But players are still sitting out games throughout the season — either by their choice or because their teams are requiring it — often for reasons being listed as load management."I think a fair point from fans could be if ultimately the science suggests that 82 games is too many games for these players, maybe you shouldn't have an 82-game season," Silver said. "I accept that, and that's something we'll continue to look at."Fewer games could mean less revenue, unless they could be replaced by something that would generate as many or more viewers. Tournaments could be an answer, even if 82 games remains the format.Silver has pointed to European soccer as something that could bring new interest to the NBA by offering teams more opportunities to win something, instead of just having one champion."That's why I'm particularly interested in looking at different kinds of formats — at midseason tournaments, for example, play-in tournaments — because even accepting that players have so many miles on their bodies, there may be better ways to present it," Silver said. "Assuming guys are going to play 82 games, maybe there should be a certain number of games in the regular season and then there should be two tournaments throughout the season."He acknowledged that model would require a change of thinking in American fans, who are used to only caring about the winner of the NBA Finals.Silver also mentioned the possibility of trimming games from 48 minutes to 40, which is the length of college and international games.He cautioned that none of the changes he discussed after the league's Board of Governors meetings were close to being implemented, and would continue to be studied within the league, perhaps for a few years.
FRIDAY PUZZLE — Happy Friday! Deb is visiting one of her children and Howard Barkin’s puzzle is abuzz with interesting entries, so here’s to life, everybody. Everywhere you look in this grid today there’s something that leaps, creeps, bites or stings, plus symbolism, and snacks. What’s not to like?The littlest things grab me sometimes; today the clue for ANT reminded me of my favorite fable. (Am I a self-righteous scold sometimes? Signs point to yes, I love a good MAXIM.) I knew MIA SARA from a fun movie and THE LORAX from a profound book, and figured out MADMEN and ROGUE ONE with little issue. I went a cropper, though, with the “television character at” 54D and the “start to place names” at 54A. I had “sori” and “san,” which didn’t correct until I figured out the extremely witty clue for SEXT at 56D, and then fixing “san” to LAS and “sori” to LORI. 22A: I can’t attest to its current acceptability, nor have I used the term myself, but I have heard various pet pix described as “TOTES adorbs” on occasion. It’s a snappy replacement for the overused “tooootally,” which reliably comes back from the dead when its substitutes, like TOTES, lose conversational currency. I was briefly waylaid by mis-entering “I have to ask” at 12D.24A: I thought I might be looking for some small character in “Moby Dick,” this being a Friday, but we are indeed in a Starbucks, and between this one and the next Starbucks is a competing coffee shop, hiding in McDonald's, a MCCAFE. 57A: Never heard of him, but Wayne ROONEY is a current star and plays in the United States, with Major League Soccer’s D.C. United, although he hails from England. If you follow international soccer you probably know him and MESSI with no problem.11D: I solved the upper right corner here pretty slowly and was unable to deduce anything from the crosses on this unexpected entry. When it finally filled in, I thought it: SON OF A!28D: This is a debut, and something I take for granted — I walk down an avenue from the subway to my home, which is blessed with late-night STREET FOOD galore. And it is possible that New York pales in comparison to Hong Kong, which has options that have been listed by Michelin and sound quite otherworldly (and EXTRA CRISPY). Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?
Manchester United and Barcelona were drawn together in the Champions League quarterfinals on Friday in Nyon, Switzerland.Between them the clubs have eight Champions League titles, Barcelona most recently in 2015 and Manchester United not since 2008.The other quarterfinals are Ajax-Juventus, Liverpool-Porto and Tottenham-Manchester City.After eliminating Real Madrid in the last round, Ajax, which has advanced further in the Champions League than any time since 2003, will now have to face Juventus, which rallied to eliminate Atlético Madrid on Tuesday behind a Ronaldo hat trick.There are four English teams in the last eight, but only Spurs and Manchester City were drawn against one another. Those are also the only teams left that have never won the European title.Manchester City, currently leading the Premier League, is the favorite to win the Champions League this season, ahead of Juventus, Barcelona and Liverpool.Liverpool is likely to be happiest with its draw; it will take on Porto, at 125-1 the longest shot left in the competition.In the semifinal, the Spurs-City winner will take on Ajax or Juventus, and the United-Barcelona winner will face Liverpool or Porto.The first legs will be played on April 9 and 10, with the return games are April 16 and 17. The final is June 1 in Madrid.The quarterfinal matchups in the second-tier Europa League are: Napoli-Arsenal, Villarreal-Valencia, Benfica-Eintracht Frankfurt and Slavia Prague-Chelsea. Chelsea is currently the bookmakers’ favorite, ahead of Napoli and Arsenal, with Slavia the outsider.
A teenage girl who did not play soccer magically became a star soccer recruit at Yale. Cost to her parents: $1.2 million.A high school boy eager to enroll at the University of Southern California was falsely deemed to have a learning disability so he could take his standardized test with a complicit proctor who would make sure he got the right score. Cost to his parents: at least $50,000.A student with no experience rowing won a spot on the U.S.C. crew team after a photograph of another person in a boat was submitted as evidence of her prowess. Her parents wired $200,000 into a special account.In a major college admissions scandal that laid bare the elaborate lengths some wealthy parents will go to get their children into competitive American universities, federal prosecutors charged 50 people on Tuesday in a brazen scheme to buy spots in the freshman classes at Yale, Stanford and other big-name schools.[The college admissions scandal has raised a lot of questions. We’ve answered them here.]Thirty-three well-heeled parents were charged in the case, including Hollywood celebrities and prominent business leaders, and prosecutors said there could be additional indictments to come.Also implicated were top college athletic coaches, who were accused of accepting millions of dollars to help admit undeserving students to a wide variety of colleges, from the University of Texas at Austin to Wake Forest and Georgetown, by suggesting they were top athletes.The parents included the television star Lori Loughlin and her husband, the fashion designer Mossimo Giannulli; the actress Felicity Huffman; and William E. McGlashan Jr., a partner at the private equity firm TPG, officials said.[Read more here about the scheme worked, from bribes to doctored photos.]The scheme unveiled Tuesday was stunning in its breadth and audacity. It was the Justice Department’s largest-ever college admissions prosecution, a sprawling investigation that involved 200 agents nationwide and resulted in charges against 50 people in six states.The charges also underscored how college admissions have become so cutthroat and competitive that some have sought to break the rules. The authorities say the parents of some of the nation’s wealthiest and most privileged students sought to buy spots for their children at top universities, not only cheating the system, but potentially cheating other hard-working students out of a chance at a college education.In many of the cases, prosecutors said, the students were not aware that their parents were doctoring their test scores and lying to get them into school. Federal prosecutors did not charge any students or universities with wrongdoing.“The parents are the prime movers of this fraud,” Andrew E. Lelling, the United States attorney for the District of Massachusetts, said Tuesday during a news conference. Mr. Lelling said that those parents used their wealth to create a separate and unfair admissions process for their children.“The real victims in this case are the hardworking students” who were displaced in the admissions process by “far less qualified students and their families who simply bought their way in,” Mr. Lelling said.At the center of the sweeping financial crime and fraud case was William Singer, the founder of a college preparatory business called the Edge College & Career Network, also known as The Key.
The scheme was as brazen as it was elaborate: Dozens of wealthy parents, according to court documents filed Tuesday, paid millions of dollars in bribes to secure the admission of their children into elite universities.Test scores were inflated, essays were falsified and photographs were doctored, all in an illicit effort to gain entry to schools such as Yale, the University of Southern California and Georgetown. [Read more on the Justice Department’s largest ever college admissions prosecution.]“We help the wealthiest families in the U.S. get their kids into school,” said William Singer, the founder of The Edge College & Career Network, in a phone call with a parent he was helping to cheat, according to the charging documents. “There is a front door which means you get in on your own. The back door is through institutional advancement, which is 10 times as much money. And I’ve created this side door in.”Here is how Mr. Singer helped dozens of parents, including high-profile Hollywood actors and wealthy business leaders, get their children into top schools, according to the charging documents. [The college admissions scandal has raised a lot of questions. We’ve answered them here.]Mr. Singer would instruct parents to seek special circumstances for their children to take the SAT or ACT, the required standardized tests for acceptance to four-year universities. Parents would use medical documentation to claim their children had a learning disability. The students would then be given a chance to take the tests in a room with only a proctor, and sometimes over two days. Then they would sign up to take the exams at either a public high school in Houston or a private college prep school in West Hollywood, two locations that Mr. Singer said he “controlled.” Mr. Singer would tell clients to come up with a reason they would be in Houston or Hollywood, such as for a bar mitzvah or a wedding.Parents paid between $15,000 and $75,000 to Mr. Singer’s company so their children could be helped in one of three ways: Someone else would take the SAT or ACT exams for the student; a person would serve as the proctor and guide the students to the right answers; or someone would review and correct the students’ answers after the tests were taken. In one case, according to the documents, Felicity Huffman, an actress, told Mr. Singer her daughter’s high school had its own exam proctor in mind.Elisabeth Kimmel, the owner of a media company, used Mr. Singer’s services twice, first for her daughter in 2012 and then for her son in 2017, according to the documents. Her daughter attended Georgetown as a purported tennis recruit, and her son was accepted to the University of Southern California as a track-and-field pole-vaulter. But he was caught off guard during orientation.According to the documents, Jane Buckingham, who owns a boutique marketing firm in Los Angeles, agreed to pay $50,000 to Mr. Singer’s company so that someone other than her son would take the ACT. But the proctor would need to write the essay portion in a handwriting that mimicked her son’s.According to the charging documents, after the exams were scored high enough so that the students became competitive applicants, the parents paid bribes — structured as donations to the university and funneled through The Key — to university coaches, who would identify their children as athletic recruits.
Zinedine Zidane knew as soon as the name flashed up on his phone. Late last week, after Real Madrid crashed out of the Champions League to Ajax and saw painful defeats to Barcelona end its hopes in both La Liga and the Copa del Rey, Florentino Pérez, the club’s president, called the man he regards as “the best coach in the world.” He asked him to come back.“And here I am,” Zidane said.Just 284 days after he left Madrid — after three Champions League titles in three years — after claiming that both he and the club needed a “change,” Zidane walked back into the media suite at the Santiago Bernabéu flanked by his wife, Veronique, Pérez, and a phalanx of Real legends.After just two phone conversations with Pérez, Zidane agreed to take charge of Real until the summer of 2022. His love for the club he had graced as both a player and a coach, he said, was too great for him to resist. “I could not say no,” he said. “I am here because the president called me.”If Pérez had known it was that simple, he might have moved to get in touch sooner. Zidane lives in Madrid; he has witnessed, firsthand, the “difficult” season his team has endured, first under Julen Lopetegui — poached from the Spanish national team on the eve of the World Cup in June, fired before Halloween — and then his replacement, the former youth team coach Santiago Solari. “I was watching my players, and I was not happy about how things were” he said.Madrid sits third in La Liga, behind not only Barcelona but also its city rival, Atlético; it is out of the Copa del Rey; and, most damaging of all, it was eliminated by Ajax in the last 16 of the Champions League last week, losing the second leg of the tie by 4-1 at home. “We are going through a difficult and complicated moment,” Pérez said. “We know what pain that brings the fans.”Little wonder, then, that Zidane — just as he did when he left Madrid, five days after lifting the third of those Champions Leagues — took to the rostrum once again speaking of the need for change. “This club is what had to and has to change,” he said. “Things have to change, in every way. We have to change for next season.”The nature of the change, though, is likely to be very different: Real must transform from a position of relative weakness, rather than strength. That is likely to mean a considerable overhaul of the playing staff: Pérez had long since accepted the need for an injection of funds into the team this coming summer, with the likes of Eden Hazard, the Chelsea forward, under consideration to join a third incarnation of the so-called Galactico project. Several high-profile members of the current squad, including Isco and Gareth Bale, may well have to be sacrificed to balance the books.The principal difference, then, is Zidane’s energy for the challenge. “I left the club because I needed it, for me, though at the time the club did not,” he said. “Since I love the president, and the club, I am here. After eight months, I want to coach again.”He has spent the last nine months, he said, “recharging my batteries, doing my things.” His list of honors, the unbroken European success he enjoyed in his first and only managerial role, ensured that he had not been short of suitors — he said he had received offers from several other teams — but none offered the emotional allure of Real.“Now I am ready to have the experience of coaching Madrid again,” he said. “They have given me the chance to be in this club once more, this club that I love very much.”
NEW YORK — Baseball's 2026 All-Star Game will be played in Philadelphia to mark the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, a person familiar with the planning told The Associated Press.The person spoke on condition of anonymity Thursday because no announcement had been made.A news conference is scheduled for Tuesday with Independence Hall as a backdrop and is to include Commissioner Rob Manfred, Phillies owner John Middleton, Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf and Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney.This will be the first All-Star Game at Citizens Bank Park, which opened in 2004. The 1976 All-Star Game was played at Veterans Stadium to mark the 200th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, and the 1996 All-Star Game also was played at the Vet, which stood in the same sports complex in South Philadelphia. The 1943 and 1952 games were at Shibe Park.This year's All-Star Game is July 9 at Cleveland's Progressive Field, which also hosted the All-Stars in 1997, when the ballpark was known as Jacobs Field. The 2020 game will be at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, site of the 1980 game. Sites for 2021-25 have not been announced.Lincoln Financial Field, adjacent to Citizens Bank Park, is among the venues under consideration to hold matches during soccer's World Cup in June and July 2026.___
CHESTER, Pa. — Jill Ellis has had three years to tinker.She knew better than anyone how quickly this summer’s Women’s World Cup would arrive, so Ellis, the United States women’s national team coach, started remaking her squad almost as soon as it crashed out of the 2016 Rio Olympics.She tinkered while her star forward signed a contract to play in France for half a season, and she tinkered when her captain signed a similar deal to join a club in England. She tinkered by bringing in new players and by dropping old ones. She tested new formations and tweaked more familiar ones, and engaged in experiments prompted by injuries, player availability and even curiosity.But Ellis said Tuesday that she is done tinkering. The players — with at least one notable exception — who are in camp for the three-game She Believes Cup, which they started with a disappointing (at least defensively) 2-2 draw against Japan on Wednesday, will form the core of the group Ellis will take to defend the United States’ world championship at the World Cup in France.There are, of course, familiar names — Alex Morgan, Megan Rapinoe, Julie Ertz, Tobin Heath — in camp. But fans who haven’t followed the team since it won its World Cup title in Canada will soon come to know several new ones, too: Rose Lavelle, Jessica McDonald, Sam Mewis, Tierna Davidson. And for the first time since 2005, the United States will enter a major tournament without Hope Solo in goal.But 100 days before the World Cup opens — a milestone that arrived on Wednesday — Ellis and her players said this week that their biggest questions already had been asked and answered.“You’ve kind of built the skeleton,” Ellis said. “Now we’re working on the nervous system.”The process has not always been pleasant. Lloyd, the star of the 2015 World Cup victory, has been eased into a supporting role, and players like Lindsey Horan and Crystal Dunn — who were not part of the 2015 team — have become nearly irreplaceable. Blessed with a wealth of speed and attacking options, Ellis toyed with a three-defender system early in the process to see if a relentless focus on getting forward would enjoy adequate cover if the ball was turned over. Spoiler: It didn’t, so she adjusted again.“I would say that it was uncomfortable,” defender Becky Sauerbrunn said of working through the evolution in real time. “And she was very honest with us and was saying she wants it to be uncomfortable.”“She said she was going to throw people into formations and into games that maybe they weren’t prepared for,” Sauerbrunn added. “And she wanted to see how they reacted, because in a World Cup you never know what you’re going to face, and you’re going to have to be able to take those challenges on and still perform well. And so I feel very strong having gone through that process.”The focus now is on polishing partnerships and connections, the “nervous system” connecting players on the field that Ellis mentioned Tuesday. Those connections were clearly lacking at times on Wednesday night, particularly in a makeshift back line that was missing the leadership and direction of an absent Sauerbrunn.“We definitely talk about relationships a lot — who you’re playing with on the sides of the field, who you’re playing with in the middle of the field, and your relationships with them,” Mewis said. “And the coaches have definitely mentioned to us that not only are they looking at individual players, they’re looking at how those players interact with the players around them.”Health issues have complicated some of those decisions. Horan, a fixture in the American midfield, will miss the She Believes Cup with a quad injury. The 20-year-old Davidson (broken ankle) and the 30-year-old Kelley O’Hara (ankle surgery) are still working their way back into top form.One of the players hoping to contend for a place in the midfield with Horan out, Danielle Colaprico, was ruled out herself this week because of a recurrence of a groin injury. Emily Fox, a young defender who had seemingly fallen out of the picture after a poor performance at left back against France in January, replaced Colaprico on the roster — but there are no guarantees Fox will go to the World Cup.“The door’s not closed for anybody,” Ellis said, though she acknowledged the time had long passed when she could afford to give a player on the fringes of the team an extended look.
In many ways, there has never been a better time to be a member of the United States women’s national hockey team.Two years after the players threatened to boycott the world championship tournament over pay equity, U.S.A. Hockey, the national governing body, is paying them more than ever, about $71,000 each annually.On the ice, the American women have continued to exceed the achievements of the men’s national team and won their second Olympic gold medal in a stirring final against Canada.Members of the team have skated in the skills competition at N.H.L. All-Star weekend and served as analysts for N.H.L. television broadcasts. Participation in the sport among girls and women is skyrocketing.But halfway through the labor contract with U.S.A. Hockey signed in March 2017, as the national team begins its pursuit of a fifth straight world championship in Finland this week, its players wonder whether the future of their sport is as bright as the present. Those concerns grew after the Canadian Women’s Hockey League, one of two professional leagues in North America, announced Sunday it would fold in May.Although the American players negotiated gains in salary and travel and medical benefits two years ago, the “groundbreaking support” for girls and women’s hockey promised by U.S.A. Hockey in the contract has been slow to develop. The Women’s High Performance Advisory Group created in the deal has been largely invisible. Minimal promotion for the team and a lack of organizational diversity in U.S.A. Hockey also raise concerns from players and female alumni that little has changed.“People are drooling for women’s hockey,” forward Kendall Coyne Schofield said in an interview late last year. “But the product we deliver isn’t being shown. There’s been a lot of lost opportunities, a lot of opportunities that haven’t been capitalized on.”Those opportunities included high-profile media appearances before the Olympics like a national magazine feature, a major network documentary series and other live television offers, which U.S.A. Hockey declined, according to three people with direct knowledge of those projects. After the Olympics, some players were unaware that they were eligible for four-figure bonuses offered by Hershey’s for winning the gold medal.U.S.A. Hockey’s executive director, Pat Kelleher, was not made available for an interview to discuss the women’s national team.After the Olympics, the women’s team embarked on a weeklong national media tour, but players were frustrated that there were no plans for a post-Olympic exhibition tour. In an interview late last year, forward Hilary Knight lamented that the team disappeared when its popularity was at its highest.Because of the talent disparity between North American teams and the rest of the world, there are not many viable opponents for the Americans, and Canada’s cooperation is necessary. Last month, the two nations finally staged a three-game exhibition series, with one game in the United States. An announced crowd of 9,048 fans attended the game in Detroit, which was also broadcast live on NHL Network.But other avenues to increase exposure do not need Canadian co-signs, like merchandising. Nike, the official apparel supplier of U.S.A. Hockey and a company that champions equality in advertisements, does not sell jerseys of American women’s players or products specifically featuring female players. Neither does U.S.A. Hockey’s online store.Coyne Schofield, one of the players who has been featured by the N.H.L. since the Olympics, is inundated with inquiries from parents about where they can buy apparel with her name. She has memorized a response with detailed instructions on how to purchase customized men’s items, even down to the six-week shipping time frame. That’s how Knight obtained replicas of her jersey for her family.“That alone is so degrading,” Coyne Schofield said. “There’s no reason why anybody shouldn’t be able to go on usahockey.com and buy a Hilary Knight jersey, my jersey. Right now, women’s hockey is not accessible to consumers. It needs to be accessible in every fashion.”Nike, which recently unveiled soccer kits for the 2019 Women’s World Cup that for the first time were specifically designed for women’s teams, did not respond to requests to discuss its women’s hockey apparel.
TORONTO — The Maple Leafs superstars John Tavares and Auston Matthews have been as good as advertised this season, and often even better.But Mitch Marner, who came to this championship-starved city with high expectations after he was chosen with the No. 4 overall pick in 2015, has had a breakout year and made a case that he’s the most valuable Maple Leafs forward.Marner, a 21-year-old winger, led Toronto in points this season and became the youngest player in Maple Leafs history to record 90 points, the first to hit that benchmark in 22 years.Marner finished 11th in the N.H.L. with 94 points (26 goals and 68 assists), six points ahead of Tavares and 21 ahead of Matthews, who missed 14 games because of injury. Marner and Tavares play on the same line, and Marner was a key reason Tavares, in his first season in Toronto, had a career-high 47 goals this season.[N.H.L. playoffs: first-round schedule and results]Tavares, Matthews and Marner, along with goaltender Frederik Andersen, will need to be at their best as the Maple Leafs seek postseason redemption against the Boston Bruins, their first-round opponent for the second straight season. Their best-of-seven series starts Thursday in Boston.The wounds remain fresh from last spring’s opening round, when Toronto coughed up a 4-3 second-period lead and lost, 7-4, in a shocking conclusion to Game 7.But last season the Leafs didn’t have Tavares, the longtime Islanders star. His signing to a seven-year, $77 million contract as a free agent last summer created hope in a city long accustomed to hockey failure. The Leafs haven’t won the Stanley Cup since 1967 and haven’t won a playoff series since 2004.Although Marner can’t match Tavares or Matthews in goal-scoring ability, he has wowed everyone with his vision.“The one thing about Marner,” Tampa Bay Lightning Coach Jon Cooper said, “is he is as smart a player as this league has not only seen this year, but has ever seen.”Marner attributes his creativity to playing multiple sports as a youth. Soccer helped develop his footwork, and lacrosse was important in developing his hands and mobility around the goal area.“Both soccer and lacrosse are creative in their own ways,” Marner said. “In soccer, I was a midfielder so I did a lot of the running up and down the field, and lacrosse-wise I think it helped with the hands a lot. It’s a different kind of motion in lacrosse for trying to get around guys, so I think that helped as well.”Born in Markham, Ontario, north of Toronto, Marner evokes comparisons to Patrick Kane and Johnny Gaudreau, other elusive, flashy stickhandlers. But in these parts, the 6-foot, 175 pound Marner is more reminiscent of Doug Gilmour, another smallish Maple Leafs forward who brought a heart and joy to the game.“He’s skilled, explosive and wants the puck and sees the ice so well,” said Gilmour, who believes Marner will someday break his franchise record for assists in a season, 95.Tavares said Marner has talked to him on the bench about the patterns he saw opponents employing.
PARIS — French TV group TF1 will exclusively broadcast the 2019 Rugby World Cup in France, it said on Wednesday, lifting the shares of the country's major TV broadcaster."After the success of previous editions, notably during the 2011 final between France and the All Blacks with 17.8 million viewers and 87 percent of audience share, TF1 Group will offer the French audience all 48 matches of the 2019 Rugby World Cup," TF1 said in a statement.TF1 shares were up 4.1 percent at 0750 GMT, and were the best performers on Paris' SBF-120 index, as analysts and fund managers welcomed the contract win."Given the sluggishness of the overall advertising market, any bit of good news regarding TV advertising is going to be well received by the market. In that context, winning exclusive rights for the Rugby World Cup - even if it's not as big as the soccer World Cup - is a good bit of news for TF1," said Gregoire Laverne, fund manager at Roche Brune Asset Management.France will go into this year's Rugby World Cup in Japan, which takes place from September through to November, on the back of a poor Six Nations tournament.Jacques Brunel, the coach of "Les Bleus", believes his team can iron out their problems before the World Cup but another disappointing Six Nations campaign suggested it would be an achievement for them to reach the knockout rounds in Japan.France beat Scotland and Italy in the Six Nations but were thrashed by England and Ireland, and their second-half collapse against Wales showed their mental fragility. (Additional reporting by Blandine Henault; Editing by Richard Lough and Mark Potter)
(Reuters) - Nike Inc's long-time brand ambassador Tiger Woods gave investors another reason to cheer on Monday, after the world's biggest name in golf won the Masters, pushing the company's stock higher.In his signature red shirt and black shoes with the Nike "swoosh" logo, the 43-year-old came back from a series of setbacks to claim his fifth Green Jacket on Sunday, ending an 11-year major title drought."A win for a high profile endorser is a clear win for the brand," Nomura Instinet analyst Simeon Siegel said.Nike celebrated his victory by posting an ad on its website titled "Tiger Woods: Same Dream," which has received nearly 500,000 views on YouTube in less than a day.President Donald Trump praised the win, tweeting: "Love people who are great under pressure. What a fantastic life comeback for a really great guy!"Nike and Woods forged a partnership that dates back more than two decades through good times and bad publicity. The brand already has a celebrated pool of endorsers, including tennis star Serena Williams, basketball phenom LeBron James, soccer stars Cristiano Ronaldo and Neymar Jr, as well as golfers Francesco Molinari and Brooks Koepka. While not transformational, Woods' win should provide a boost to Nike's golf apparel business, marketing consultancy firm Metaforce co-founder Allen Adamson said."His win is good for golf and its good for Nike," he said. Nike's shares were up about 1 percent at $87 Monday morning. (Reporting by Nivedita Balu and Uday Sampath Kumar in Bengaluru; Editing by Anil D'Silva)
COPENHAGEN — Chinese pandas Xing Er and Mao Sun are settling into their new home at Copenhagen Zoo.Their 160 million Danish crowns ($24 million) enclosure was opened to the public on Thursday by Denmark's Crown Princess Mary after the animals were officially welcomed on Wednesday. "We're enjoying the sun today - it couldn't be better. A lot of guests will come today to see the real life pandas," the Australian-born princess told reporters on Thursday."That a zoo has pandas is unique and can be compared to advancing in the Champions League," zoo spokesperson Jacob Munkholm Hoeck said, likening it to the elite soccer tournament.The zoo is hoping to start a breeding programme with the animals."We have a female panda named Mao Sun and a male panda called Xing Er and they are five and six years old ... In the wild they live on their own, just like here. But once every year when the female is on heat, we'll bring them together and then we hope they can make panda babies," the spokesman said. Queen Margrethe cut the ribbon on the animals' new enclosure during a ceremony on Wednesday which drew a small number of protesters. A few protesters waving Tibetan flags were also gathered outside of the zoo on Thursday. Danish-Chinese relations have improved markedly since a low point 10 years ago, when Prime Minister Lars Lokke Rasmussen met the Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, who Beijing brands as a dangerous separatist.Copenhagen Zoo, which hit the headlines for the killing and public dissection of a healthy giraffe five years ago, has become the 27th of the world's around 10,000 zoos to have pandas, and the ninth in Europe.  ($1 = 6.6404 Danish crowns)  (Reporting by Teis Jensen; Editing by Alison Williams)
FRONT PAGEAn article on Sunday about the impact of child care on Japanese women’s careers described incorrectly employment statistics for women in Japan. The proportion of working women employed part time is close to half, not more than half, and the proportion on temporary contracts is more than half, not about a third.INTERNATIONALA headline with an article on Monday about the discovery of the wreckage of the aircraft that crashed carrying the Argentine soccer striker Emiliano Sala referred incorrectly to the plane. As the article correctly stated, it was a single-engine, propeller-driven airplane, not a jet.ARTSAn entry on Monday in the “What’s on TV” highlights described incorrectly the debut episode of “Elvis Goes There.” It opens with a visit to London with the actor and director Paul Feig, not a visit to Oakland, Calif., with the director Ryan Coogler.•An article on Sept. 21 about Maroon 5’s scheduled appearance in Sunday’s Super Bowl halftime show misstated the name of the band’s song with Cardi B. It is “Girls Like You,” not “Girls Like Us.” (The correction was delayed, because it was only recently brought to the attention of the editor.)Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.


MANCHESTER, England — Some soccer players in England boycotting social media in a protest against racism were targeted with abuse for posting about the 24-hour campaign.Talks with the social media companies are now being urgently sought by the Professional Footballers' Association, which coordinated the "Enough" campaign to demand a crackdown on racism by the platforms.There was silence on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram from many players from 0800 GMT Friday for 24 hours."Yesterday, some members received racist abuse on their #Enough posts. When these incidents were reported, the response from social networks was — again — unacceptable," the PFA said in a statement. "In the coming days, we will be inviting players to report any racist abuse they have received to us. We will collate it and share it with social platforms to demonstrate the impact of their lack of action.""We will be requesting meetings with each of the social platforms as a matter of priority," the PFA said. "Meetings with the Football Association and government are planned for next month. This is a first step in a larger player-led campaign to tackle racism and demand meaningful change."The boycott was advocated by Tottenham defender Danny Rose, who was targeted with monkey noises while playing for England in Montenegro last month, and Manchester United defender Chris Smalling, who called for more stringent regulation of posts on social media.Social media companies did not appear to respond on their networks to the players' concerns despite widespread coverage and support from FIFA for the boycott.Twitter did not respond to an email from The Associated Press requesting comment and Facebook, which also owns Instagram, provided a statement that did not directly address the players' concerns."We will remove hate speech or credible threats of any kind, and we encourage anyone who sees content they find offensive to report it so we can remove anything that breaks our community standards," Facebook said by email. "We have developed a range of tools that allow users to moderate and filter the content that people put on their pages including; hiding or deleting comments, blocking certain words, turning on a profanity filter, and banning people."___
Less than a month after the New England Patriots won the Super Bowl, a group of Massachusetts lawmakers has proposed a bill that would ban organized youth tackle football until after seventh grade.The bill, which moved to the Massachusetts legislature’s Joint Committee on Public Health this week, follows unsuccessful attempts by legislators in five other states to pass similar measures to protect growing brains from traumatic injury.The bipartisan bill, known as No Hits, would impose financial penalties for any school league or other entity that does not comply.“There is significant science detailing repetitive head impacts have long-term neurological consequences, especially when they occur during brain development,” one of the bill’s sponsors, Representative Paul A. Schmid III, a Democrat, said in a statement.Although some medical professionals and former N.F.L. players have signaled their support for the measure and public opinion could buoy its prospects, the bill is already facing headwinds.Two representatives who initially supported the measure have withdrawn their names from the bill, and a few other legislators said they would not support it.“Should we ban youth soccer too?” asked Representative David Nangle, a Democrat who opposes the bill. “Or youth hockey? When do we stop legislating into areas that we shouldn’t be?”A spokeswoman for U.S.A. Football, which governs youth football, said in a statement that the organization believes that decisions on allowing children to play football are “best left to parents.” To that end, she said, it has created a set of guidelines developed by leaders in athlete development and football.The executive director of Pop Warner, Jon Butler, said in a statement that the organization had worked to improve player safety by eliminating the three-point stance and removing kickoffs for younger athletes. “Banning football is not the answer, but we do agree that we should continue our efforts to make the game safer for our kids,” he said.Studies by Boston University and other research centers have shown that children who began playing tackle football before the age of 12 were at greater risk for cognitive, mood and behavioral issues later in life, as well as conditions like chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease linked to repeated hits to the head.But there has been opposition to those findings from the N.F.L. and even from well-intentioned parents, said Michael Kaplen, a lawyer who teaches a legal course on traumatic brain injury and tracks legislation governing youth tackle football. Mr. Kaplen said that there was no such thing as safer tackling and that a youth league’s promoting safer tackling would be similar to big tobacco companies’ offering low-nicotine cigarettes.“People don’t understand that even a minor blow to the head has risks,” he said. “It may take years for these problems to become unmasked.”Steve Dembowski, 49, an executive board member of the Massachusetts High School Football Coaches Association, said parents, rather than the state, should be able to make choices for their children.“Considering that kids at that age get concussions playing soccer and baseball and any other sport where they can fall and hit their head on the ground,” he said, “it seems like an overstep of authority.”Damon Stanton, 43, has two sons who play football, and he coaches youth football in Hanson, Mass., about 25 miles south of Boston.
COSTA MESA, Calif. — Dean Spanos is breathing a sigh of relief.Spanos, owner of the Los Angeles Chargers, has been criticized relentlessly for moving his team out of San Diego — into a soccer stadium, no less — and for the tepid reception the team has received in its new home 100 or so miles north.But in sports, winning is the ultimate elixir, and the Chargers (and their new crosstown rivals, the Rams) are winning.The Chargers went a surprising 12-4 this season, including victories in Seattle, Pittsburgh and Kansas City. They will face the Patriots in Foxborough, Mass. on Sunday.The wins come at a critical time for the team, which has started selling seat licenses to would-be season-ticket holders in the new, 70,000-seat stadium the Chargers will share with the Rams beginning in 2020.In an interview at the team’s training facility this week, Spanos said that the Chargers’ success was helping generate interest in the team, but that winning over fans in Los Angeles was a long-term project.On the team’s decision to play temporarily in a 27,000-seat soccer stadium“Just being able to get around the stadium, the amenities, all the game-day experience is important, and I think it’s appreciated.”On the sale of seat licenses for season tickets in the new stadium“We’re probably where we thought we would be, and playing well really helps. Timing is everything. It kind of jumps every time [we win]. Monday mornings are great when you win in the playoffs.”On the decision to price seat licenses as low as $100“We gave up a little, but enough to make it more affordable. Once we get them there, it’s more important than trying to make another 25 or 30 bucks a ticket. And that really helps you establish yourself in the market.”On the Chargers’ commitment to the market“There’s no doubt we’re the Los Angeles Chargers. Los Angeles is our home.”On competing with the Rams and whether the city can support two N.F.L. teams
SEOUL, South Korea — Wildfires fanned by strong winds raged through hills and villages along the northeastern coast of South Korea on Thursday night and Friday morning, scorching hundreds of homes and forcing thousands to evacuate as the government declared a national disaster.By Friday afternoon, tens of thousands of firefighters, police officers and soldiers had managed to contain the largest fires, which left at least one person dead, officials said.Most of the 4,000 people who had fled homes on Thursday, creating chaotic traffic jams along narrow mountain roads, returned by Friday, the government said.President Moon Jae-in declared the wildfires a national disaster on Friday, instructing his government to direct all necessary manpower and resources to fight the flames and provide relief for distressed villagers.Mr. Moon also asked his government to consider designating the affected area a special disaster zone so that victims there could get discounts on medical and national insurance premiums, as well as other government subsidies. His government has previously declared five disaster zones in the past two years in the aftermath of floods, earthquakes and typhoons.This week’s wildfires have burned an estimated 1,297 acres of wooded land, the equivalent of over 730 soccer fields.The fires were believed to have been started by sparks from an electric transformer that was shaken by strong winds on Thursday, according to officials at the National Fire Agency.As flames raced downhill, villagers and teenagers on field trips in the area were evacuated to schools in nearby towns. More than 50 schools in the region asked their students to stay home on Friday.The region is close to the border with North Korea and near where South Korea hosted the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics. The blaze was one of the worst wildfires since 2005, when 2,400 acres of wooded land, as well as a centuries-old Buddhist temple, were destroyed on the east coast.
“Combat Obscura” opens with multiple disclaimers stating that nothing onscreen reflects official policy or has Defense Department endorsement. Given that the next moment the screen shows an explosion — and someone shouts “that’s the wrong building!” — the reason for the warnings is immediately apparent.As a United States Marine in Afghanistan, Miles Lagoze, the director, worked as a videographer, documenting scenes of war for official release. (We see a clip of such material on CNN midway through the film.) Somehow, Lagoze kept his hands on unreleased footage he and others shot in Afghanistan in 2011 and 2012, and made it the basis for this film.He presents these outtakes with minimal orientation. One through line is the mutual incomprehension between Americans and Afghans. Early on, a Marine believes an Afghan child has warned him about a bomb. He radios a translator, who listens to the boy and says he was simply trying to bum a cigarette.The Marines round up men at a gathering but ultimately release them. One American thinks it “looked like a Taliban meeting,” though the movie suggests reasons to doubt that.Later, the Marines examine a body, and one asks aloud whether they have just killed a shopkeeper. (“This is no good for people to see,” another says.) In these scenes, the decision to forgo context is powerful and troubling.The film also shows the Marines, none formally identified, during lulls, goofing off and getting high. (“Luckily for us, Afghanistan’s a hash farm,” one says.) There is optimism — a soccer game with Afghan children — and quick work tending the wounded. Leaning in to the style its patchwork of source material requires, “Combat Obscura,” is an eye-opening dispatch from a conflict mired in confusion.
WASHINGTON — A rat falling out of the arena hallway ceiling during the Carolina Hurricanes' warmup game of soccer was just a precursor to a wacky afternoon of playoff hockey.Long after the dead rodent was removed, Game 2 between the Hurricanes and Washington Capitals included a questionable ejection for a check to the head, a shot off one goalie's mask and another that went in off the other goalie's backside. It fittingly ended with an overtime goal from an unlikely source that sent the defending Stanley Cup champions into a wild celebration around the team's most popular player.Veteran leader Brooks Orpik scored 1:48 into overtime Saturday to give Washington a 4-3 victory and a 2-0 lead over Carolina in the first-round series. His fourth goal in his 151st playoff game was his third winner, and Orpik became just the 11th defenseman in NHL history with two postseason overtime goals."I'm probably not counted on for too many goals, but I think if you want to have the long runs, you need everybody kind of chipping in and doing things they don't normally do," Orpik said. "Always feels good when the team comes out on top."The Capitals came out on top thanks to Alex Ovechkin's two perfect passes, a 5-on-3 penalty kill and a stick shortage by Carolina that allowed Evgeny Kuznetsov to find Orpik for his goal. Afterward, owner Ted Leonsis quipped, "Just like it was drawn up."There was no way to script the strange happenings that unfolded on and off the ice. Perhaps it was an omen for things to come when the ball used in the Hurricanes' pregame soccer ritual knocked a rat down from the ceiling."I saw that," Carolina's Sebastian Aho said. "First time I've seen it. Kind of odd."Then the game happened. Just like Game 1, the Capitals jumped out to an early 2-0 lead — this time on goals by Nicklas Backstrom and T.J. Oshie — but this time the Hurricanes didn't wait until the third period to come back.Lucas Wallmark scored late in the first after teammate Saku Maenalanen brushed Braden Holtby, which Capitals coach Todd Reirden challenged for goaltender interference. It held up because the NHL situation room and referees determined the contact wasn't significant enough to disallow the goal."Playing the position, you know that that's interference," said Holtby, who made 25 saves. "But there's a point in hockey where you've just got to battle, too. I'm not going to complain about a call or no-call. I know that doing that is giving me the best chance to stop that puck. We move on."Things only got stranger in the second period. Less than a minute after exiting the penalty box, Hurricanes forward Micheal Ferland hit Nic Dowd while bent over and was given a five-minute match penalty for an illegal check to the head and ejected.After officials conferred and decided to make it a five-minute major, coach Rod Brind'Amour screamed at referee Steve Kozari that it was a clean hit, pointing to his hip to emphasize Ferland made mostly hip to shoulder contact. Dowd left to go through concussion protocol but returned."To be honest with you, I let up," said Ferland, who added he doesn't expect to be suspended. "I could have finished with my shoulder, but I didn't. I came, hit him with my butt. I thought it was a clean hit. I don't agree with the call."During the ensuing power play, a one-timer from defenseman John Carlson hit Hurricanes goaltender Petr Mrazek on the right side of his mask and knocked it off. Mrazek winced in pain but did not get pulled for concussion protocol and stayed in the game."It caught me a little bit on the chin there," said Mrazek, who made 29 saves. "When I fell, I didn't have the mask on and I hit the ice pretty hard with my face. That was the worst."
MINNEAPOLIS — The plains of West Texas are a long way from the bustling piazzas and porticos of northern Italy, where Davide Moretti was raised in a soccer culture and basketball was just a niche.But NBA fans in Italy can now look to the likes of Danilo Gallinari and his 20-point scoring average for the Los Angeles Clippers in a league that has made major strides in Europe since Moretti was born in Bologna 21 years ago.The college game, however, has been a decidedly foreign concept overseas, though, with the term March Madness likely to elicit strange looks even if correctly translated.Well, there's hardly been an NCAA championship with more of a global presence than this one, with Moretti's Texas Tech Red Raiders facing the Virginia Cavaliers in the title game Monday night. Eight players are from other countries.Moretti, the sophomore starting guard for Texas Tech , once played on an Italian junior national team with Virginia forward Francesco Badocchi, who has redshirted his first season."We're the first Italian guys who have ever made it to the Final Four," Moretti said, "so it's kind of a big-time thing right now back in Italy for basketball."According to data calculated by digital content producer Hero Sports, of the 1,036 players in this year's NCAA Tournament, 117 listed a home country other than the United States. Canada (23) contributed the most, followed by Australia (14). Seventeen other countries produced at least two players, including seven from African nations.For an American kid, a shooting session in the driveway after dinner could naturally include a singing of "One Shining Moment" and an idyllic vision of cutting down the nets at the national championship game. Not so much in other countries, where the presence of soccer and the significant time zone difference have long been more than enough to keep college basketball in the dark."When the games are on, it's usually when we're at school and stuff like that so we don't get to watch it because we're doing other things," said Kody Stattmann, another Virginia redshirt and a native of Australia.Starting forward Mamadi Diakite, whose buzzer-beating shot sent the Cavaliers to overtime in the Elite Eight where they outlasted Purdue, has become a national hero in Guinea. In Africa, though, his family and friends have to settle for watching replays."The day after the game, I get texts about it," Diakite said.For many of these international players, then, the desire to drape a gold, silver or bronze medal around their neck can be a bigger goal than winning an NCAA title with their college teams, as exhilarating as that can be."Playing in an Olympics is something that everybody dreams of," said Moretti, who will try to make the Italian national team for the FIBA World Cup this summer.Moretti played on junior teams in European and world championships, burnishing his credentials as one of the top international prospects before choosing Texas Tech over Indiana, Connecticut and Utah.Badocchi moved to the U.S. earlier to further develop his game in high school in Kansas, his mother's home state. Her work in the fashion industry brought her to Milan, where she met Badocchi's father.

For Arike Ogunbowale, the trip to the top of the Empire State Building on Wednesday was unusually fast.It had been arranged for her to bypass the lines and take express elevators to the observatory on the morning she was to become a professional basketball player. In the hours leading to the 2019 W.N.B.A. draft, these kinds of experiences did not faze Ogunbowale. Not after she had become one of the most recognizable faces in college basketball after hitting a pair of buzzer-beaters for Notre Dame in last year’s Final Four — one to slay Connecticut, the other to best Mississippi State and win the national championship.“Nah, I’m used to life throwing new things at me now,” Ogunbowale said with a smile as she looked out over the New York skyline.Even for the relentless Ogunbowale, the past week has brought a particular kind of whiplash.On Wednesday night, the Dallas Wings selected her fifth in the draft, after the Las Vegas Aces took her college teammate Jackie Young with the top pick.“You know, Dallas is a great place, and they have a great coach there, so I’m really excited,” Ogunbowale said, referring to Brian Agler, who has won the league title with teams in Seattle and Los Angeles. “I’m ready to get started.”The draft followed her vintage set of performances in this season’s Final Four: 23 points in another win over Connecticut, and a game-high 31 points in the national title game against Baylor. Ogunbowale’s final shots came after a drive to the basket that yielded two free throws in the waning seconds, her team trailing by 2 points.Then, the unthinkable: a miss. And a championship lost. Ogunbowale’s painful moment played out on the national stage, too, amplified in part by her previous success. Her mother, Yolanda, raced down from the stands after the game to reassure her, to say how proud she was.“Over time, she’s going to realize that she won’t be defined by that moment,” Yolanda said Wednesday, hours before her daughter would hear her name called at the W.N.B.A. draft at Nike’s New York headquarters. “I was just hurting for her, and for her teammates, because they wanted it so bad.”And there would be no time to process. A late Sunday night game turned into a Monday morning flight to South Bend, Ind., where Ogunbowale has one more class to complete at Notre Dame before she graduates.Then it was onto New York, to see the realization of a professional dream that dates back to high school in Wisconsin, though first Ogunbowale had to choose basketball over soccer. (Oddly enough, Baylor recruited her for soccer.) She and her mother both say she could have gone pro in that, too. Confidence, backed up by results, runs in the family.The path Ogunbowale chose has worked out pretty well. Over these last few days, her strength and her network of fans have fed off each other. Yolanda said Arike’s bubbly personality had drawn people into her orbit since she was a little girl.Fans recognized her at the airport as she headed back to school, and some approached to cheer her up. People took notice, too, up on the Empire State Building observation deck. For Ogunbowale, it is becoming clearer that everyone still sees in her that dynamic personality, that same person who hit buzzer-beaters, who scored 55 in a high school game, who can count LeBron James and Kobe Bryant among her fans.“Kobe, LeBron, all of them, they’ve missed some important shots in their lifetime,” Ogunbowale said. “It’s a part of the game, you know? I’m not going to be able to make every shot. So I’m glad about my career, and I think I had a great four years. Everybody’s been telling me that. I mean, that’s just one shot. But what you’ve done these four years for the program, for just women’s basketball in general, is big.”How big? After the loss, Bryant reached out directly to encourage her. There seems to be something about Ogunbowale that make people root for her (unless they are part of the Connecticut faithful, that is).
The Obie Award-winning actress Quincy Tyler Bernstine got married last September on a rooftop in Brooklyn, but the honeymoon to St. Kitts had to wait. One of the most valuable performers in some of the boldest new Off Broadway work, she can seem almost omnipresent on New York stages. You might assume a show got in the way.Nope. At least, not directly.“I had jury duty,” Ms. Bernstine said the other afternoon in her dressing room at Lincoln Center Theater. “And I had postponed it so many times, because of plays, that I had to go.”So in January, she was fresh from her honeymoon when she went into rehearsals for Jackie Sibblies Drury’s fractured, time-jumping biographical epic “Marys Seacole,” at LCT3. She plays the title role, a formidable woman based on a historical figure, the adventuring 19th-century Jamaican nurse Mary Seacole. (The plural in the title hints at universality.)It’s a mammoth part with monologues that stretch on and on, and Ms. Drury wrote it with her in mind. But on about day two of rehearsals, Ms. Bernstine looked at a calendar and panicked. There wasn’t going to be nearly enough time.Spoiler: She figured it out, splendidly. Ben Brantley, in a glittering review in The New York Times, deemed her “fabulous,” “commanding” and “delightfully intimidating.”In that first week of rehearsals, though, she found herself in tears every evening, walking the few blocks from the theater to CNN, where her husband, Rick Hall, is a cameraman who covers breaking news.“I would go, and he would meet me in front of the building, and I would cry,” she said. “I would wake up in the morning: Cry. This has never happened before. I didn’t know how I was going to do this.”That reaction was understandable, said her director, Lileana Blain-Cruz, given that Ms. Bernstine had to deliver five pages of monologue in one scene and seven in another.“That’s enough to make anybody’s head trip,” Ms. Blain-Cruz said. “Even though she was terrified, that terror was so beautifully, privately contained. She didn’t allow it to contaminate the room.”Ms. Bernstine calls “Marys Seacole” the most challenging thing she has ever worked on. It pushed her, she said, “almost to the brink of wanting to give up.”“The jobs that are, I think, in the end most worth it are the ones that almost break you,” she continued with perfect calm. “That sounds horrible, doesn’t it,” she said. It wasn’t meant as a question.[What’s new onstage and off: Sign up for our Theater Update newsletter]This is the kind of career Ms. Bernstine has built, gravitating toward brainy work that challenges conventions and stretches forms — plays like Anne Washburn’s “Mr. Burns, a Post-Electric Play” (she played Bart Simpson), Heidi Schreck’s “Grand Concourse” and Bess Wohl’s “Small Mouth Sounds.”She won her Obie in Lynn Nottage’s “Ruined,” and made her only Broadway appearance so far in Sarah Ruhl’s “In the Next Room, or the vibrator play.” Last season, eager to work with the director Phylicia Rashad on a Stephen Adly Guirgis revival, she went unusually brassy in “Our Lady of 121st Street.”
Chelsea has paid Borussia Dortmund $73 million to complete the signing of Christian Pulisic, making the 20-year-old the most expensive American player in history by some distance.Though moving to the Premier League has “always been Christian’s dream,” according to Dortmund’s technical director, Michael Zorc, Pulisic will have to wait six months for it to be realized. He will spend the remainder of this season on loan at the Bundesliga leader, before joining up with Maurizio Sarri’s team in the summer.In a heartfelt statement posted on Twitter on Wednesday morning, Pulisic thanked the German club for the “opportunities” it had offered him since he arrived as a “raw, excited, very nervous but exceptionally proud 16-year-old from a small American town called Hershey.”He said it had been an “honor and a dream” to play for the club, and a “privilege” to experience the support of Dortmund’s fans. He told fans there was no need to doubt his “passion, determination and 110 percent commitment” as Dortmund attempt to win a first German title since 2013.He had, however, made it clear in recent months both to Zorc and Hans-Joachim Watzke, Dortmund’s chief executive, that he did not intend to extend his contract — due to expire in 2020 — at Signal Iduna Park. Instead, he had set his heart on moving to England, something related to his “American background,” according to Zorc. “Against that background, we have decided to accept an extremely lucrative bid from Chelsea,” Zorc said.The fee — more than three times the amount Wolfsburg paid Hertha Berlin for John Brooks, the German-born U.S. international, in 2017 — makes Pulisic the third most expensive player in Chelsea’s history, and the third most expensive player ever purchased from a Bundesliga team.It represents something of a success for Dortmund given that Pulisic has started just five of the team’s Bundesliga fixtures this season, having recovered from injury to find the likes of Jadon Sancho and Jacob Bruun Larsen blocking his path. He has started more regularly in the Champions League, featuring in all but one of Dortmund’s group games as the German team qualified with ease for the competition’s last 16.For Chelsea, though, Pulisic’s appeal had not faded. Aside from the likely marketing benefits of employing the most high-profile American player of his generation, Marina Granovskaia, the director who oversees the Premier League team’s transfer activity, described the signing as something of a coup for Pulisic’s on-field qualities.“Christian has shown his quality during a fantastic spell in Germany and at just 20, we believe he has the potential to become an important Chelsea player for many years to come,” Granovskaia said. “We look forward to welcoming him to Stamford Bridge in the summer and wish him and Dortmund every success for the remainder of the season.”Pulisic described the chance to sign for such a “legendary club” as a “privilege,” and said he “looked forward to being a contributor to their team of world-class players.”Whether Chelsea’s most obviously world-class player — Eden Hazard — remains in place when Pulisic arrives, though, remains open to question. The Belgian has admitted on several occasions that he is tempted by the prospect of a move to Real Madrid at the end of the season, though he has not agreed terms with the Spanish team and Real have not so much as submitted an offer to Chelsea, let alone had a bid accepted.Even if Hazard — whose contract also expires in 2020 — chooses to stay, the signing of Pulisic is likely to herald the departure of Willian and/or Pedro, despite the fact that Sarri has increasingly relied on playing both of them as he seeks to earn a place in the Champions League in his first year in charge at Stamford Bridge.Both are now in their 30s — Chelsea has a policy of not offering long deals to players approaching the end of their careers — and will be out of contract in 2020, too. Though Pulisic is not necessarily a like-for-like replacement for any of them, his arrival suggests Chelsea is starting to contemplate a long-anticipated overhaul of its squad as it seeks a way to keep pace with the likes of Manchester City and Liverpool.
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherNew Zealand is holding a national day of remembrance today for the 50 people killed in the mosque shootings in Christchurch. Our colleague spent several days with one family of one man who died in the attack. [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.]On today’s episode:Background reading:Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.
Note: Our Sixth Annual 15-Second Vocabulary Video Challenge is underway. It will run until Feb. 18._________The word paltry has appeared in 88 articles on NYTimes.com in the past year, including on Jan. 17 in “Politics Looms Over Empty Seats as Saudi Arabia Faces Qatar in Asian Cup” by Tariq Panja:_________The Word of the Day and the quiz question have been provided by Vocabulary.com. Learn more and see usage examples across a range of subjects in the Vocabulary.com Dictionary.
SYDNEY — Sydney FC's top of the table A-League clash against Perth Glory this month has been moved away from the Sydney Cricket Ground after a furore over the 'dangerous' pitch at the iconic stadium during the weekend.Australia's players' union joined Melbourne Victory boss Kevin Muscat in slamming the SCG pitch after visiting midfielder Terry Antonis suffered a knee injury during a match against Sydney FC on Saturday night.Head of Leagues Greg O'Rourke said that although the Football Federation Australia (FFA) considered the surface to be "playable and safe", the April 18 fixture would be moved to Jubilee Oval "in the best interests of all stakeholders"."The SCG's (cricket) wicket block ... compromises the uniformity of the field for football in particular," he said in a joint statement with Sydney FC and the SCG. Antonis fell to the ground untouched on the edge of the cricket square during a 2-1 loss for his side in a clash between the last two Australian champions.Professional Footballers Australia (PFA) called for an independent investigation into how the match was allowed to go ahead given the 'deplorable state' of the pitch, which the body said posed a clear danger to player safety.The SCG is being used by soccer, rugby league and rugby union teams in addition to hosting its usual cricket and Australian Rules matches while the neighbouring Sydney Football Stadium (SFS) is re-built. Some 3,000 square metres of turf were relaid after the surface was torn up during a rugby union match last month.Sydney FC travel to city rivals Western Sydney Wanderers next weekend but are assured of still being in second place behind Perth, who are six points clear at the top of the A-League, going into the match the following week. "This is a hugely important fixture with first playing second and we want the narrative to be about the football," Sydney FC Chief Executive Danny Townsend said."This is a decision made in the viewing interest of members and supporters."The SCG has hosted test cricket since 1882 and was the venue for hundreds of rugby league and union matches before the SFS was completed in 1988.  (Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly in Mumbai; editing by Nick Mulvenney)
A dozen years ago, the University of Washington barred athletic coaches from having contact with anyone in the admissions department.With a move that now seems prescient, two new administrators supervising athletics sought to allay any concerns that coaches could put undue pressure on admissions personnel. The change also brought more oversight to athletics, in this case through a committee of senior faculty members, deans and other university representatives.The previous arrangement, said Philip Ballinger, an associate vice provost now overseeing admissions, “didn’t have sufficient transparency; it didn’t have enough eyes on it.”The leeway coaches get in recruiting has long been a point of discussion in higher education circles. But after federal investigators last week revealed a broad admissions cheating scandal, a number of colleges began asking hard questions about how they evaluate athletic applicants and oversee the chosen few whom coaches recommend for admission.In what prosecutors described as the biggest case of admissions fraud they had investigated, 50 people were accused in a scheme that involved paying bribes to coaches and to people who monitor admissions tests in order to fraudulently get the children of wealthy patrons into some of the nation’s most elite colleges.Some students were accepted as recruited athletes even though they did not play the sports described in their applications. They gained an advantage through the widespread practice of allocating a certain number of admissions spots to athletes who might not get in otherwise.This process has been followed for decades in the pursuit of competitive teams, which burnish a university’s reputation, inspire alumni loyalty and often help with fund-raising.Now, the fraud case has sent a thunderbolt through the higher education community.“Every college president in America called his athletic director the morning after that admissions fraud story broke and asked: How do we make sure this doesn’t happen at our school?” said Bill Martin, the athletic director at the University of Michigan from 2000 until his retirement in 2010. “And certain athletic directors were smart enough to call their presidents first to insist that they were going to start verifying the status of every admitted recruited athlete.”Indeed, at Yale University, where F.B.I. investigators say the longtime women’s soccer coach accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars to facilitate the admission of a recruit who did not actually play soccer, the university president, Peter Salovey, announced late last week that new oversight policies had already been put in place. The Yale athletic director will begin reviewing every proposed recruit’s credentials before admission, and recruited athletes who fail to make a team after they arrive will receive “close scrutiny,” a university statement said.A broad overhaul of athletic admissions systems in Division I, the highest level of N.C.A.A. competition and the level the colleges in the scheme compete in, has been overdue, according to several athletic administrators interviewed in recent days.Battles over blue-chip recruits in football and basketball already tend to be heavily scrutinized. In those upper echelon sports, if there is money changing hands, it is from coaches to recruits, not the other way around.But in the lower-profile sports like crew, volleyball, tennis and soccer — often called the Olympic sports — there has been more room for bribes and exploitation. And the most common route in such a fraud is to designate a phony athletic prospect as a “recruited walk-on.” In nearly every case of counterfeit athletic credentials cited in last week’s indictments, from Stanford to Texas to Yale, the prospective athlete appeared to be filling the nebulous role of recruited walk-on.Such applicants are not even assured a spot on the team. But they are often on a list of five to 20 athletes — it varies from sport to sport — that a coach is permitted to submit to the admissions department.The two daughters of the actress Lori Loughlin, who was charged in connection with the fraud case last week, were passed off as crew recruits despite never having competed in the sport, according to federal prosecutors.
SHAOXING, China — Wang Jianfeng is no ordinary barber. The 39-year-old from Shaoxing in eastern China specializes in sculpting images of famous faces on to the backs of his clients' heads. From the likes of former Chinese leader Mao Zedong to KFC's Colonel Sanders, to film stars such as Bruce Lee and Jean Reno, Wang can do them all.Inspired by a video he saw online of renowned U.S. hair artist Rob Ferrel, who creates portraits of celebrities on his clients' scalps, Wang wanted to do the same for Chinese men.Since completing his first hair sculpting piece in 2015, Wang has steadily gained a loyal following. His work has become so popular that clients have traveled from neighboring provinces and cities to get their hair sculpted by Wang."It's a form of art," Wang said. "It comes from life but it is also beyond life."Shi Like, a 30-year-old delivery worker, is one of Wang's regulars whose previous hair art designs of choice include one of Salvador Dali's distinctive mustache.When Reuters visited Wang's barbershop, Shi opted for Chairman Mao to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the People's Republic of China. "Serving the people is my motto," Shi beamed, quoting the former Chinese leader himself."I feel like the image of the renminbi note is sculpted on my head," Shi added, laughing to himself. Another of Wang's regulars, 28-year-old Zhai Rubin, was visibly delighted to be getting a cut of one of his idols - former England soccer player David Beckham.Having Beckham's image on his head "means that I can be fashionable as him", said Zhai.Wang spends two weeks each month on the road, giving lessons around the country to barbers and hair stylists at major high street salon chains on how to sculpt basic patterns on to clients' heads. The rest of the time, when not running his barbershop business, Wang does hair art for around 8 to 10 clients each month. Clients are charged 200 yuan ($30) for each piece of hair art which is the same price as a normal haircut at Wang's barbershop. 

NEW YORK — With more TV streaming services than ever before, from newcomers like Disney Plus to stalwarts like Netflix, consumers may feel the ideal viewing experience is finally at hand.Americans have, on average, three streaming video subscription services, according to a recent study of digital media trends by Deloitte. While some have dropped cable and its average bill of around $100 a month altogether, about 43% have both pay TV and streaming subscriptions.Yet patching together a variety of services to get just what one wants isn't always seamless. Families and individuals can still find themselves with service that doesn't perfectly suit their viewing habits. And those monthly subscriptions can add up fast."It doesn't make sense to pay for a bunch of content you have no interest in watching," said Bruce McClary, vice president of marketing for the National Foundation for Credit Counseling. "Finding a service that lets you scale your channel lineup based on your interests can also help you avoid paying for things you don't need."A little research on which services are best for you can help save big bucks.FOR FAMILIESDisney is making the biggest play for family viewership. The owner of Disney Channel, the Star Wars franchise and most recently Fox's entertainment business is betting its mix of family-friendly franchises and beloved animated classics, along with original programming, will make the Disney Plus service irresistible to families, even if they already subscribe to other services. The service, launching Nov. 12, will cost $7 a month initially.For some kids, there may be no substitute for watching Disney's "Frozen" over and over again. But other services that families might already subscribe to have a lot of family-friendly programming too. Amazon Prime ($119 per year or $13 per month for Prime loyalty program membership; Prime Video alone costs $9 a month), Hulu ($6 to $12 per month), and Netflix ($9 to $16 per month) all offer kids programming.Another choice for parents: HBO Now ($15 a month) is the home for the classic kids TV show "Sesame Street." And for spendthrifts, YouTube's free Kids channel offers an endless stream of kid-friendly fare, although quality varies widely.FOR MOVIE BUFFSMovie fans will soon have to work a bit harder to find movies to stream. As Disney, Fox, Universal and Warner Brothers and others offer their own streaming services, they will all eventually pull their content from Netflix. But niche services are there to fill the void.Classic movies can be difficult to find streaming. Movie fans suffered a loss when AT&T, which bought Time Warner last year, decided to discontinue FilmStruck, a streaming service that was a collaboration between Turner Classic Movies and the Criterion Collection. But a similar service called The Criterion Channel that offers 1,000 classic and contemporary films is stepping up to fill the void. It costs $11 a month or $99 for a year.Other movie-centric streaming services include Fandor ($6 per month or $50 per year) or Mubi ($11 per month). Both offer a curated selection of movies.Those on a budget can try Kanopy, a streaming service that works with public libraries and universities to offer library card holders streaming movies for free.FOR SPORTS FANS
To the Editor:“Media Tips and Gulf Money Fuel Campaign to Sabotage Qatar’s Cup” (Sports pages, Feb. 2) implies that the challenges facing Qatar as host of FIFA’s 2022 World Cup are because of the current Gulf crises. However, the challenges facing Qatar 2022 predate the crises.When Qatar was awarded the right in 2010 to host the World Cup, it was assumed it would usher in a period of bridge building, peace, prosperity and moderation in the Middle East. It turned out that it was anything but in the interests of the region. FIFA, which has been marred with accusations of corruption, found itself being used as a vehicle to advance the political agenda of Qatar.Qatar is using the tournament to whitewash its image of being a host to Islamist extremists. Yet it continues to host such Islamists as Yusuf al-Qaradawi, who is barred from the United States and Britain. He has openly endorsed suicide attacks against Israelis (later reversing himself) and continues to be an ideological inspiration for Qatar’s regime. What Qatar laws and ethics dictate are in total contradiction to the FIFA Code of Ethics.When FIFA decided to investigate allegations of corruption related to Qatar 2022, hopes were high that it would no longer tolerate corruption. Allegations of corruption that surfaced again in 2018 would tend to indicate that FIFA did an incomplete job.Trust in global soccer as a bridge to peace and accountability is at stake. Before Qatar is allowed to host FIFA World Cup 2022, it must first answer questions about corruption allegations and address issues of anti-Semitism and extremism. If 2022 comes and Qatar does indeed host the World Cup without changing, the message the world is giving to Muslim and Arab youth is that extremism is acceptable. Qatar should also not be allowed to hide behind the current Gulf crises to avoid answering questions related to FIFA World Cup 2022.Ghanem NuseibehLondonThe writer is the founder of Cornerstone Global Associates, which published a report critical of holding the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. 
COPENHAGEN — The squats and leg lifts were harder than they looked, and after a few sets, Alfonso Aguirre Rodriguez placed his hands on his knees and attempted to compose himself.In November, Aguirre, a 24-year-old professional video game player from Spain, joined the five-man roster of Origen, a League of Legends team that competes in the game’s top European league. The players — all signed in late fall — were told at the time that the team might be run a bit differently from what they were accustomed to. Now here they were, five young men who make their living sitting almost completely still in front of desktop computers, sweating through an hourlong workout in a cramped gym.“I think I’m going to puke my oatmeal,” said Aguirre, who is known in the gaming community as Mithy. “I’m dying.”Some years ago, traditional sports leagues were revolutionized by young analysts wielding computers. The way things had always been done, it turned out, was not always the best way to do things. Now echoes of that transformation have arrived in the growing world of professional e-sports, where gamers are being shepherded toward a new frontier, oddly, by the old, corporeal wisdom of traditional sports.The debate about whether competitive gamers can be considered athletes may never end. In the meantime, though, gamers are increasingly acting like them.Origen is one of two teams owned by Rfrsh Entertainment, an e-sports company based in Copenhagen. Two years ago, the organization hired Kasper Hvidt, a former captain of Denmark’s national handball team, to be its sporting director. Hvidt, 43, had no previous exposure to gaming. But that was the point.E-sports in recent years have crept into the mainstream, attracting new fans, new sponsors and new investment. The top professionals now make six-figure salaries and earn even more with endorsements and prize money. And yet, Hvidt observed, their approach to performance remained amateurish.Eating right, sleeping right, exercising, cleaning up for sponsors — these ideas have undergirded traditional sports for generations. In e-sports, they are regarded as almost radical.“They don’t look at themselves as physical human beings,” said Hvidt, who won the European handball championship with Denmark in 2008.“It’s common sense, in a way. But with them it was not.”Rfrsh has a validating narrative under its belt. The company’s other team, Astralis, which competes internationally in the first-person shooter game Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, had gone almost a year without winning a tournament when Hvidt joined the organization in mid-2017. In 2018, the team earned $3.7 million in prize money while putting together one of the most dominant years ever by any team in any e-sports game.And so Origen this year has set off on the same journey of athletic self-improvement. As recently as last year, the players’ typical day might have been a sedentary extravaganza of sugary energy drinks, fast food and unresolved psychic tension. Now, their days are interposed with protein smoothies, yoga mats and slow-paced breathing exercises.The effects of those changes, the team said, have been plain to see: After starting the current season with a 1-4 record, Origen went on a tear, winning 11 of its final 13 matches, finishing the regular season in second place and securing a first-round bye for the playoffs, which began Friday.“These are little things,” Fabian Broich, Origen’s assistant coach, said. “But they add up, and over the long term you have a more emotionally stable team and a more focused team.”At Rfrsh, Hvidt has assembled a performance team — a physical trainer, a sports psychologist, a massage therapist, a medical doctor and a nutritionist — and constructed a lifestyle plan for the players that combines scientific research, old-school sports wisdom and simple common sense. Broich, 28, a former professional soccer player from Germany, acts as a liaison between the management team and the players, implementing the principles on the ground.
LOS ANGELES — A soccer fan says in a lawsuit that the California Department of Motor Vehicles violated his First Amendment rights by rejecting a personalized license plate he said would celebrate his favorite team, but which the DMV determined might be deemed offensive.Jon Kotler applied for a plate that would read "COYW," an acronym of the slogan "Come on You Whites" used by supporters of London-based Fulham Football Club, according to the federal lawsuit filed in Los Angeles on Tuesday. Fulham players wear white jerseys.In denying the proposed plate, the DMV said the abbreviation could "have racial overtones" and carry "connotations offensive to good taste and decency," according to the court filing.The department's rejection of the application violated his right to freedom of speech, said Kotler, a lawyer and constitutional scholar at the University of Southern California Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism.The Department of Motor Vehicles said Tuesday that it does not comment on pending lawsuits.Kotler's suit asks the court to declare the Department of Motor Vehicles' criteria for personalized license plates unconstitutional. He also wants the department to pay his court costs."You can't allow bureaucrats to make decisions that are fundamental to what it means to be an American, and our free speech is one of those things," Kotler said in a news release. "When the government starts to infringe on our rights, that's when the individual citizen must speak up."In its rejection letter to Kotler, the Department of Motor Vehicles acknowledged the difficulties in balancing "an individual's constitutional right to free speech and expression while protecting the sensibilities of all segments of our population."In a 1973 case, the California Court of Appeals upheld the Department of Motor Vehicles' standard of "good taste and decency" in rejecting a plaintiff's claim that his free speech was violated when the department rejected his requested license plate, "EZ LAY."Constitutional scholar David L. Hudson said courts are often split in cases claiming censorship over personalized plates."It appears in this case that the government has engaged in regrettable censorship of Mr. Kotler's speech," said Hudson, who teaches at Tennessee's Belmont University and is a fellow at the Freedom Forum Institute. "To me courts should be very sensitive to viewpoint discrimination and should err on the side of protecting the individual's speech from government censorship."Kotler is being represented pro bono by the libertarian-leaning nonprofit Pacific Legal Foundation. The group criticized the Department of Motor Vehicles' "attempt to make itself the speech police" in a statement announcing the lawsuit."You can call Jon a sports fan or a First Amendment expert, but the DMV's misguided efforts to regulate license plates have misbranded Jon as a racist," the foundation said.___
WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Eric Swalwell said on Monday he would seek the Democratic nomination for president, joining a crowded field seeking to take on Republican Donald Trump in the 2020 election.Swalwell, a third-term congressman from a California district south of San Francisco, made the announcement during a taping of CBS's "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert," which airs later on Monday. The program tweeted a clip of Swalwell saying he was running for president.Swalwell said tackling student debt and gun violence were among the reasons he jumped into the Democratic primary race."None of that is going to change until we get a leader who is willing to go big on the issues we take on, be bold in the solutions we offer, and do good in the way that we govern. I'm ready to solve these problems. I'm running for president," Swalwell said.Swalwell, 38, is now among the youngest candidates vying for the 2020 Democratic nomination, along with Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and Representative Tulsi Gabbard from Hawaii, both of whom are 37. Thirty-five is the minimum age to serve as U.S. president.Swalwell cited his work on the House Intelligence Committee and his founding of Future Forum, a group of more than 25 Democratic lawmakers that visits universities and community colleges to discuss issues important to millennial voters like student loan debt and climate change, among the reasons he would be a qualified White House candidate.In his first House campaign, Swalwell defeated a Democratic incumbent who had been in office since 1973, seven years before Swalwell was born.Since joining Congress, Swalwell has advocated for raising the cap on the portion of salary that is subject to the Social Security payroll tax. He has also proposed a "mobile Congress" that would allow lawmakers to cast votes remotely from their districts.Swalwell grew up in Iowa and California. He attended Campbell University in North Carolina on a soccer scholarship for two years before transferring to the University of Maryland, where he earned his bachelor's and law degrees.Other House lawmakers in the Democratic race include Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio, who announced his bid last week. Former Representative Beto O'Rourke from Texas is also a contender.U.S. senators vying for the Democratic presidential nomination include Kamala Harris of California, Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. (Reporting by Amanda Becker, Makini Brice and Eric Beech; Editing by David Alexander)
BOSTON — A tennis coach with a country club membership and a second home on Cape Cod. An assistant teacher at a Houston public high school. A college administrator whose reputation as a stickler for the rules belied what prosecutors say was a penchant for secretly taking bribes to facilitate students’ admission.All together, a dozen people, including six coaches, pleaded not guilty in federal court in Boston on Monday in the college admissions scandal that has ensnared Hollywood celebrities and forced a reckoning at elite colleges where prosecutors say students were admitted on the basis of falsified test scores and athletic credentials.Those who appeared in court showcased the wide range of people who prosecutors believe were caught up in the scheme. The man who connected them all was William Singer, a college admissions consultant known as Rick who has pleaded guilty to helping the children of clients cheat on college admissions exams and to facilitating bribes.So far, the prosecutors have revealed little beyond what is in the charging documents, leaving several mysteries. The United States attorney’s office has said that the investigation is continuing, leading to speculation that more parents or coaches could be charged.At a news conference on March 12, Andrew E. Lelling, the United States attorney for the District of Massachusetts, said that one client of Mr. Singer’s had paid $6.5 million to facilitate their child’s admission to college — many times more than what any of the other parents have been accused of paying. This payment is not mentioned in any of the documents, and the person who paid this sum has not been revealed. A spokeswoman for the attorney’s office would not identify the family or the school, but said it was paid to get a child into college through the athletic recruiting scheme.Also on Monday, the federal Department of Education sent letters to the eight colleges where coaches are alleged to have taken bribes, saying that it was opening an investigation of its own, according to a department official with knowledge of the investigation.The letter said that the investigation, first reported by Politico, would examine, among other things, whether the colleges violated any laws or regulations governing federal financial aid programs. It asked the colleges for information about their admissions policies, as well as the names, Social Security numbers and academic transcripts of students who were allegedly admitted as part of the scheme.Those who appeared in court in Boston on Monday, all of whom have been indicted on one count of racketeering conspiracy, are each accused of participating in one or both aspects of the scam.At one end of the spectrum of those charged was Gordon Ernst, the former head tennis coach at Georgetown University, who has been accused of taking $2.7 million in bribes from Mr. Singer to designate at least 12 applicants as recruits to the tennis team. Prosecutors are seeking forfeiture of Mr. Ernst’s country club membership and a second home on Cape Cod, among other assets. Mr. Ernst appeared in court on Monday flanked by two prominent defense lawyers.At the other end was Lisa Williams, an assistant teacher at a Houston high school known as Niki who prosecutors say took bribes — the indictment cites one in the amount of $5,000 — in exchange for allowing cheating on the college entrance exams. The judge noted that Ms. Williams, who entered her plea in a voice barely above a whisper, had qualified for a court-appointed lawyer.In a sign of the wide interest the case has generated, television cameras and photographers crowded the sidewalk outside the courthouse an hour before the hearing. Access to the courtroom was limited, with some journalists confined to a spillover room. Inside the courtroom, the defendants, their lawyers and family members, and a few members of the public, filled the benches on the left and in the center, while the benches on the right were packed with reporters.Most of the defendants appeared in suits, but one charged in connection with test cheating, Igor Dvorskiy, the director of a private school in Los Angeles, was dressed informally, in a gray sweater.Magistrate Judge M. Page Kelley conducted the hearing with the efficiency of an assembly line. She brought the defendants up three at a time to be arraigned. Mr. Ernst came first, and in addressing him about his rights and the consequences of violating the conditions of his release, Judge Kelley instructed the others to listen carefully so that she did not have to repeat herself.All of the defendants are out on bail, of varying amounts. Those who also appeared on Monday were Donna Heinel, the former senior associate athletic director at the University of Southern California; Laura Janke and Ali Khosroshahin, former University of Southern California soccer coaches; William Ferguson, the former women’s volleyball coach at Wake Forest University; Jorge Salcedo, the former head coach of men’s soccer at the University of California at Los Angeles; and Jovan Vavic, the former U.S.C. water polo coach.Others included Steven Masera, the accountant and chief financial officer of Mr. Singer’s company and a related nonprofit through which prosecutors say he funneled the bribes; Mikaela Sanford, an employee of Mr. Singer’s who is accused of taking online classes in place of some students so that they could submit the grades she earned as part of their college applications; and Martin Fox, the president of a private tennis academy in Houston, whom prosecutors say Mr. Singer paid for helping to arrange some of the bribes.
FIFA is pressing ahead with plans to expand the 2022 World Cup despite the concerns of some officials in the host nation, Qatar, whose support the project requires. The move, a politically perilous project but one heavily backed by FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, would grow soccer’s biggest championship to 48 teams ahead of schedule and require navigating some treacherous regional rivalries.Under the plan currently being considered, most matches in the 2022 tournament would still be held in Qatar — which won the rights to a 32-team event and continues to prepare for one — but other games would take place in Kuwait and Oman as part of a broader Middle Eastern World Cup. Infantino’s expansion would not send games to countries that are currently leading a political and economic blockade of Qatar, like the United Arab Emirates.Infantino, elected FIFA president in 2016 and seeking re-election to a four-year term in June, has been among the biggest proponents of an expanded World Cup that, through increased places for FIFA’s member associations and increased sponsorship revenues, could prove popular among countries that rarely get to compete in the tournament.A final call on the idea was expected to be made next week when FIFA’s governing council meets in Miami, but Infantino has decided to move the final decision to FIFA’s annual Congress in June, where he is standing unopposed for re-election.Should Qatar agree to the change — its consent is required — and should logistical challenges be overcome, Infantino would most likely seek the approval of FIFA’s 211 member federations, a grouping long known for rubber-stamping policies favored by the president. He had said previously that the decision would be taken up by the smaller FIFA Council, which governs the sport worldwide.FIFA and Qatar’s World Cup organizers did not comment on the matter.Privately though, some senior members of the organizing committee who have been working on the event since Qatar controversially secured it a decade ago are opposed to sharing the competition and frustrated that it may yet happen. Qatar’s final position on the matter will be defined by its rulers, who may see political advantage in agreeing to include specific neighbors.While Infantino has suggested that sharing games with Qatar’s neighbors would help heal rifts in the region, a FIFA-led group conducting a feasibility study has concluded that it would be impractical to include the blockading countries, which also include Bahrain, in hosting plans, leaving Oman and Kuwait as favored choices. Infantino recently visited both countries, where he discussed the idea, according to people with knowledge of the talks.Infantino has pushed an expansion of the World Cup at every opportunity in recent years, despite setbacks along the way. He pulled the issue from the agenda at last year’s FIFA Congress amid a backlash from various stakeholders.But Qatar’s posture — it has not publicly rejected an expanded World Cup, even as logistics almost certainly require bringing in partners — has emboldened Infantino to forge ahead to secure the expanded format, which has been adopted for the 2026 World Cup and beyond. Qatar 2022 organizers have said since last summer that they will reserve judgment on a 48-team tournament until a comprehensive study has been carried out.Infantino has vacillated when asked about the intensity of his push for a 48-team World Cup, veering between sporting justifications that center on growing interest in the sport and politically hopeful ones that suggest it could ease political tensions in the region.“There are tensions in this particular region, and it’s up to their respective leaders to deal with that, but maybe it’s easier to talk about a joint football project than more complicated things,” Infantino said in January. “If it can help all the people in the Gulf and all the countries in the world develop football and bring a positive message to the world about football, then you should give it a try.”Kuwait and Oman have remained largely neutral during the Gulf crisis, which has been characterized by bitterness and often petty behavior between opposing countries. That enmity was laid bare at the recently completed Asian Cup, where Qatar routed host United Arab Emirates in a final that was played in a poisonous atmosphere and will be remembered for the scores of shoes and other types of footwear that rained down from the bleachers toward Qatar’s players as they celebrated goals in a 4-0 victory. With flights blocked between the countries, Qatari players traveled to the tournament via Oman, while its fans were largely barred from attending.The travel restrictions are also a concern for World Cup organizers who had banked on thousands of supporters traveling to the event from Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E.There are several logistical hurdles to clear for an expanded tournament. FIFA officials have ruled that Qatar, smaller in size than Connecticut, won’t be able to absorb the additional games, and now must decide if neighboring countries possess infrastructure that meets its exacting demands.
Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. Also, we’re following breaking news about the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines jet, which killed the more than 150 people aboard. Boeing identified the plane as a 737 MAX 8, the same model that crashed in October in Indonesia. 1. 47 months.The sentence for Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, struck many as lenient, compared with the 19 to 24 years recommended under sentencing guidelines. Mr. Manafort, above in 2017, had perpetrated a decade-long, multimillion-dollar fraud scheme, but Judge T.S. Ellis said he lived “an otherwise blameless life.”This week, a judge in federal court in Washington will sentence Mr. Manafort on two conspiracy charges, which carry a maximum penalty of five years each. Michael Flynn, Mr. Trump’s former national security adviser, will also be sentenced this week.And Michael Cohen, the president’s former fixer and personal lawyer, sued the Trump Organization for refusing to pay him $1.9 million in legal costs. We also obtained six checks from Mr. Trump to Mr. Cohen that show how the president tried to prevent alleged sexual misconduct from going public.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. House Democrats tried to put to rest an uproar over Representative Ilhan Omar’s remarks, seen by some as anti-Semitic, with a bill condemning hate.The scandal overshadowed the passing of a comprehensive reform bill — dismantling voting barriers, limiting money in politics and imposing stricter ethics rules on federal officials. Above, Ms. Omar at a news conference for the reform bill with Speaker Nancy Pelosi.In last week’s will-they-or-won’t-they 2020 developments: John Hickenlooper, a two-time Colorado governor, is running for president. Former Vice President Joe Biden is 95 percent sure he is, too. The leading Democratic candidates have largely broken with consensus-driven politics and embraced progressive ideas. Here’s what that means for moderates.Check our candidate tracker for updates on the crowded presidential field.____3. The southern border is experiencing a “humanitarian catastrophe,” according to Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary.She urged Congress to support the president’s border wall, although it was not clear how that would solve the humanitarian crisis. Her testimony came as the number of migrants crossing the border without authorization reached an 11-year high in February. Above, migrants in Penitas, Tex., turning themselves in to Border Patrol agents in February.
The spectacle of Julian Assange, bearded and haggard, resisting arrest while London police officers dragged him through the street, punctuated the end of seven confounding years inside the Ecuadorean Embassy, where he lived with his cat in a small corner room as the world’s most famous self-proclaimed political refugee.Mr. Assange, 47, has long fashioned himself as a crusader for revealing secrets. The internet group he founded, WikiLeaks, published caches of classified American government communications, as well as emails hacked by Russian intelligence clearly intended to damage the presidential candidacy of Hillary Clinton.Though arrested Thursday morning by the British for skipping bail, Mr. Assange was immediately charged in the United States for conspiracy to hack a government computer.To supporters, Mr. Assange was a martyr and champion of free speech. To the United States government, he was a pariah and a  lackey of the Kremlin. But it was the hardened opinion of Ecuador’s government that perhaps mattered most.He had become an unwanted houseguest.At the tiny red-brick embassy, he continued to run his internet group, conducted news conferences before hundreds of fawning admirers from a balcony, rode his skateboard in the halls, and played host to a parade of visitors, including Lady Gaga and Pamela Anderson, a rumored lover who brought vegan sandwiches.On Thursday, Ms. Anderson sent out a batch of Twitter messages attacking the arrest as a “vile injustice” and called Britain and the United States “devils and liars and thieves.”In interviews with The New York Times in 2016, as part of a long look at his ties to Russia, Mr. Assange denied any link to Russian intelligence, in particular regarding the leaked Democratic emails. Mrs. Clinton and the Democrats were “whipping up a neo-McCarthyist hysteria about Russia,” he said. There is “no concrete evidence” that what WikiLeaks publishes comes from intelligence agencies, he said, even as he indicated that he would happily accept such material.Small as they were, Mr. Assange’s living quarters at the embassy, close to the lavish self-indulgence of Harrods, the famous department store, did not cramp his desire to remain in the limelight.Mr. Assange had an office equipped with a bed, sunlamp, phone, computer, kitchenette, shower, treadmill and bookshelves. Three years ago, one person familiar with the setup called it “a gas station with two attendants.”Vaughan Smith, who had been a longtime supporter of Mr. Assange and helped put up his bail money, said that “Julian’s a big bloke, with big bones, and he fills the room physically and intellectually.”“It’s a tiny embassy with a tiny balcony,” he added, “small, hot and with not great air flow, and it must be jolly difficult for everyone there.”But from there, Mr. Assange for years held court for admirers and famous curiosity seekers, among them the soccer star Eric Cantona, and Nigel Farage, the pro-Brexit radio host and former head of U.K. Independence Party.Still, Mr. Assange’s isolation was wearing on him, a friend said on Thursday, especially the long, lonely weekends in an essentially empty embassy he could not leave.Even his friends have described him as difficult, a narcissist with an outsized view of his importance and a disinterest in mundane matters like personal hygiene.
Note: Students 13 and older are invited to comment here. Adults should post their comments elsewhere on NYTimes.com.On Tuesday, federal prosecutors charged 50 people in a brazen scheme to buy spots in the freshman classes at Yale, Stanford and other big name schools. Have you heard about the scandal?Watch the one-minute video above to learn more about the indictment. What is your reaction to what you know so far?In “College Admissions Scandal: Actresses, Business Leaders and Other Wealthy Parents Charged,” Jennifer Medina, Katie Benner and Kate Taylor write:Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— What is your reaction to the college admissions cheating scandal? What details in the article did you find the most shocking and why? Are you surprised that something like this happened in the United States? Why or why not?— Who do you think should be held responsible for these crimes and how so?— The authors write: “The charges also underscored how college admissions have become so cutthroat and competitive that some have sought to break the rules.” Do you agree? What do you think this case tells us about the college admissions process today?— In a recent Opinion column, Frank Bruni argues that what these parents did is not all that different from the lengths to which many wealthy families will go to secure college admission for their children:What is your reaction to Mr. Bruni’s claim? Do you think the college admissions process is rigged to favor the wealthy? Do you think it is fair? Why or why not?— What message does this scandal send to high school students who intend to go to college? What is your biggest takeaway from it?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.
PARIS/KIEV — Flanked by rock musicians wearing yellow overalls and black t-shirts with skulls on them, Ukraine's President Petro Poroshenko pumped his fist, danced to the music and waved to supporters outside a soccer stadium in Kiev on Sunday.Standing on a stage filled with young people, he sent a message to his absent challenger, the comedian Volodymyr Zelenskiy, ahead of a presidential election run-off on April 21. "I am pleased that so many young people are with us today. Volodymyr Oleksandrovych, you hear the voice of Kiev, the voice of Ukraine, its youth. The youth is with us. The youth is the driving force of our state," he said on Sunday. Poroshenko has rebooted his campaign after Zelenskiy won nearly twice as many votes as him in the first round of the election on March 31, reaching out especially to younger voters disillusioned with corruption and the slow pace of change.The president apologized for past mistakes like installing business cronies to high office, promised to be more transparent in communicating decisions and pledged to bring more young people onto his staff if voters gave him another chance.At stake is the leadership of a country on the frontline of the West's standoff with Russia following the 2014 annexation of Crimea and the outbreak of a Kremlin-backed insurgency in eastern Ukraine that has killed 13,000 people.If elected, Zelenskiy has promised to keep Ukraine on a pro-Western course, pursue reforms and tackle corruption. Investors view him as something of an unknown quantity but his team has tried to assure them he will keep the country's loan program with the International Monetary Fund on track.In an interview with Reuters on Friday, Poroshenko said his strategy for the first round was reminding Ukrainians to be proud of their country and not listen to Russian depictions of its neighbor as a failed state.Doing so allowed him to trumpet achievements like securing visa-free travel for Ukrainians to European Union countries, strengthening the army and helping establish a national Orthodox church independent from the Russian clergy.But for the second round, he has struck a more contrite tone with voters while still painting Zelenskiy as a buffoonish populist."First of all, some people are disappointed. And we should open their heart, we should knock on their doors, we should deliver the information that 'look, we hear what you mean. We understand what you need,'" Poroshenko said.    "Don't believe populists, don't believe in the simple decision to the complicated question. May I remind you, we are the country in a state of war," he said onboard his plane between whistle-stop visits to Berlin and Paris.Poroshenko has also sought to shore up his reformist credentials. He rolled out a long-awaited special court to try corruption cases and fired a regional governor accused of incompetence.Asked if he had more surprises up his sleeve before the second round, Poroshenko replied: "You consider launching an anti-corruption court as a surprise? I think this is a part of my program."The answer to your question would be definitely 'yes'. I have some surprise for the last week," he said, declining to specify. "Otherwise it wouldn't be a surprise."
REYKJAVIK, Iceland — When it comes to print advertising, most high-end watch manufacturers go for the traditional: a product close-up and maybe a posed scene of gift-giving or sporting skill.Not JS Watch Company.One of its ’40s-style photo ads has its 69-year-old master watchmaker and charismatic frontman, Gilbert O. Gudjonsson, peering through a watchmaker’s eyepiece while his three business colleagues, clad in matching rubber swim caps, gawk at a statuesque bathing beauty beside a swimming pool.In another, the colleagues are aviation mechanics, stunned by an attractive flight attendant. Mr. Gudjonsson? He’s too busy inspecting a map to notice.Why would an atelier that has earned critical acclaim for its mechanical timepieces, made of Swiss movements and German parts, have an ad campaign that is the equivalent of an exaggerated stage wink?It’s because Mr. Gudjonsson and his colleagues — Grimkell Sigurthorsson, Sigurdur Gilbertsson and Julius Heidarsson — believe in watchmaking with a sense of humor.“Yes, we are watchmakers, but we are always having fun here,” said Mr. Gudjonsson, who once danced through Reykjavik dressed as an astronaut to promote Arc-Tic Iceland, a line of waterproof quartz watches created by the atelier.The business occupies a space on Laugavegur, a popular Reykjavik shopping street where tourists browse fisherman’s sweaters and sample grilled puffin. Visitors will often find Mr. Gudjonsson behind a door labeled “Probably the world’s smallest watch manufacturer,” in a narrow showroom decorated with vintage wall clocks.He has been fixing, selling or assembling watches since he was 16. “I never have to be in an office or use a computer — and I never want to,” he said.Occupying just 25 square meters, or 270 square feet, the showroom has a tiny work area tucked at the rear, so it could well be among the world’s smallest ateliers. In any case, some big names — including Tom Cruise, Ben Stiller and Yoko Ono — own its mechanical timepieces.Even the Dalai Lama has one. “He loves watches; he collects them,” Mr. Gudjonsson said. The local chapter of Friends of Tibet presented the watch during the Buddhist leader’s 2009 visit to Iceland. “When they gave it to him, he said watches are his only weakness.”Each year, the atelier produces about 500 watches. Mr. Gudjonsson assembles them in the work space, often with the help of Mr. Gilbertsson, his son — although Mr. Gilbertsson says he frequently seeks refuge from the atelier’s festive atmosphere at a second JS workshop nearby.The JS line has 14 collections, each with an Icelandic theme. One added last year was a 300-piece limited edition celebrating the Icelandic soccer team’s first FIFA World Cup spot and the smallest country by population ever to qualify for competition. (The team was eliminated after a loss to Croatia.)Some watch blogs and reviews criticized the design as taking the soccer theme too far — with a soccer ball engraved on the crown and a red 12 on the dial as a nod to fans, collectively considered the team’s 12th member — and the company for touting a niche timepiece as a dress watch at a luxury price of 2,418 euros ($2,748).“But not everyone is a collector,” Jason Swire, author of “Timely Advice” and a writer for Ablogtowatch.com, wrote in an email. (Mr. Swire said he used news releases to critique the watch.) “A lot of consumers prefer to own a single ‘nice’ watch and wear it for all occasions, and for that demographic a half-sporty, half-dressy watch makes a lot of sense.”
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — This year’s Miami Open is about 20 miles north of its previous home on Key Biscayne, but the tournament’s cultural epicenter is unmoved. It’s still somewhere thousands of miles to the south.Because there is no tournament of its caliber in Mexico, the Caribbean, or Central and South America, the Miami Open has developed into the de facto Latin American Slam, drawing fans from the region and its diasporas, transforming this Florida fixture into a virtual homecoming for Latino players.“It’s really nice to have the support,” said Leonardo Mayer, an Argentine. “It’s almost like playing in Buenos Aires.”The top South American player, Juan Martín del Potro of Argentina, missed this year’s tournament because of a knee injury, but fans had to change only one letter in their customary cheer for him in order to root for his compatriot Federico Delbonis, who took a set off top-ranked Novak Djokovic on Sunday. Instead of “Olé, olé, olé, olé! Delpo, Delpo!” they chanted, “Delbo, Delbo!”Even away from the court, the Miami area’s large Latino population affects the experience of playing in the tournament. Delbonis said he appreciated being able to buy yerba mate leaves in Miami to make his favorite beverage; for most events, he has to travel with his own supply.“Every time I come here I feel like I want to be here, I want to live here,” he said. “When I got to the court today, I heard a lot of Argentinians speaking Spanish, cheering in Spanish, and you feel that energy they give you. They give you confidence, and you feel it inside. It’s good for your game to be more happy on court.”Monica Puig, who in 2016 won Puerto Rico’s first Olympic gold medal, had vocal support from many Puerto Rican fans in her first-round match on Wednesday, when she lost to Wang Xiyu. She said regretted not being able to play more matches throughout the season in front of that crowd, which included her father.“Having that Latin American feel here, just buzzing all over the place, it’s really special,” said Puig, the only Latin American woman ranked in the top 100 in singles.Even fans from Latin American countries that are not represented among the players make their presence felt. After Fabio Fognini of Italy defeated Guido Andreozzi of Argentina on Friday, a woman unfurled a large Paraguayan flag.Latin American reporters travel to the Miami Open in droves, with 24 representatives of Argentine news media leading this year’s international contingent, according to the tournament.Though Latin American fans initially embraced the tournament organically, the event has begun marketing to them directly, including digital advertising in South America in both Spanish and Portuguese, as well as on Spanish-language websites in South Florida. (While Latin food and music can be found on the grounds, all the signs at the Miami Open are in English.)Players from the United States have to adjust to this rare home tournament where the crowds may not tip in their favor. Pablo Cuevas of Uruguay recalled being stunned in 2011 when fans chanted his country’s name as he upset Andy Roddick, the defending champion and American star, on the stadium court of Key Biscayne.In one of the last matches played at the old venue in 2018, the American John Isner, the eventual champion, had little support when he met del Potro in the semifinals.“The fans were great, but it was not 50-50,” Isner said, smiling. “There were a lot of Argentinian flags, that country loves their sport, loves their soccer and their tennis. To see all the flags in the crowd, it was a very, very cool atmosphere.”Many other non-Latin American players similarly relish the passionate crowds.
DOHA/LONDON — Qatar filed lawsuits on Monday against three banks, accusing them of causing billions of dollars of damage to its economy by what it called overseas currency manipulation in the wake of an Arab boycott against Qatar in 2017.The cases, filed in London and New York, name Luxembourg-based Banque Havilland, the United Arab Emirates' First Abu Dhabi Bank (FAB) and Saudi Arabia's Samba Bank, according to filings seen by Reuters and a statement from Qatar's government communications office.First Abu Dhabi Bank declined to comment, while Banque Havilland and Samba Bank did not immediately respond to requests for comment.In the case, Qatar alleges Banque Havilland devised a plan to weaken the country's riyal currency on key composite indices by submitting thousands of "fictitious and depreciated" quotes, according to the court filings."But the quotes were phoney, as FAB, Samba Bank, and others repeatedly refused to transact with counterparties at the prices they were quoting in public," the filings stated. The lawsuits are the latest fallout in a protracted Gulf row that began in 2017 when Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt imposed an economic boycott on Qatar in 2017, accusing it of supporting Islamist militants and Iran.Qatar, a small Gulf state but major gas exporter, denies the charges and says the boycott is an attempt to impinge on its sovereignty.The currency manipulation was intended to "deplete Qatar's financial reserves so that it would be unable to complete its preparations to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup games, and would be forced to share the games with Saudi Arabia or the UAE," the filings stated. UAE sports chief Mohammed Khalfan al-Romaithi has said his country and other Gulf states could co-host an expanded World Cup 2022, a measure global soccer body FIFA is expected to vote on in June but which Qatar holds the final decision over. Qatar liquidated nearly $3 billion in U.S. treasury investments and drew down over $40 billion in foreign reserves after the alleged manipulation in a bid to support its currency, the filings stated.With more than $300 billion in central bank reserves and sovereign wealth fund assets, bankers say Qatar has sufficient financial firepower to block attacks on its currency.Its central bank began a probe into the alleged manipulation in late 2017 after it said unidentified banks were looking to attack the riyal by trading it between themselves offshore at artificially weak levels - to create an illusion Qatar's economy was crumbling."Qatar seeks to hold FAB, Samba Bank, and the unknown John Doe Defendants who conspired with them liable for the billions of dollars in damages that they have caused to Qatar, plus punitive damages and statutory interest," the filings stated.They added elsewhere that Qatar also sought to hold Banque Havilland similarly responsible. (Reporting by Eric Knecht and Dmitry Zhdannikov; Additional reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Dale Hudson and Mark Potter)
The Swiss watch brand Hublot, which has partnered with the likes of the FIFA World Cup and the Ferrari Formula One team, has announced that it will continue its role as official timekeeper of the Cricket World Cup, with the 2019 competition scheduled to start May 30.The event is sponsored by the International Cricket Council and held every four years — this year in England and Wales.Hublot’s previous high-profile sporting affiliations have put it in competition with more established watch brands, such as Rolex, Omega and Audemars Piguet, each of which has successfully used sports to raise brand awareness. Hublot was founded in 1980 and has been owned by LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton since 2008.Ricardo Guadalupe, Hublot’s chief executive, said that Hublot’s strategy was to invest in sports that have a global footprint and little, if any, association with other Swiss watch brands. In the past, Audemars Piguet had worked with Sachin Tendulkar and Ulysse Nardin with Yuvraj Singh, both Indian cricketers, but Hublot is the first to partner with the organizing council.“Cricket is virgin territory,” Mr. Guadalupe said in an interview during the announcement of the partnership at the brand’s Bond Street boutique in London.Mr. Guadalupe said cricket also would give Hublot a route to market in targeted regions. “Cricket is huge in India,” he said. “There is potential to grow heavily in India and with Indians, who buy all over the world.”Cricket is India’s most popular sport. The national broadcaster Star India reported that its television coverage of the 2015 Cricket World Cup, also sponsored by Hublot, was watched by more than 600 million people in the country. (The 2019 Super Bowl had a domestic audience of 98.2 million, according to the research firm Nielsen.)“We’ve had double-digit growth in India since we got involved in cricket,” Mr. Guadalupe said, adding that this summer Hublot plans to open its first stand-alone boutique in Mumbai, India’s financial center and largest city, and is working on one in New Delhi.Mr. Guadalupe declined to disclose the cost of the I.C.C. partnership, but said that it was in the “single millions” of dollars and much less costly than Hublot’s soccer affiliations.As part of the cricket deal, Hublot had announced a 100-piece limited-edition watch, a version of its 45-millimeter Classic Fusion Chronograph that is scheduled for release on March 23. (Mr. Guadalupe said the 2,018-piece limited-edition connected watch that Hublot made for the 2018 World Cup sold out in four weeks.)Mr. Guadalupe also said that some top Hublot customers would be given a special experience at the Cricket World Cup, but that the reason for the partnership was to “build and shape the consumer of tomorrow.”
The Cannes Film Festival on Thursday unveiled a set of movies in contention for this year’s Palme d’Or. The American director Terrence Malick — who won in 2011 for “The Tree of Life” — is back with “A Hidden Life,” set during World War II. Films by Pedro Almodóvar of Spain and Ken Loach of Britain are also in the running.Quentin Tarantino’s “Once Upon a Time in Hollywood” could join the lineup if it’s completed in time, said the festival’s artistic director, Thierry Frémaux, at a news conference in Paris. Mr. Frémaux said he had seen most of it, and it was “magnificent.”The festival opens on May 14 with Jim Jarmusch’s zombie movie “The Dead Don’t Die” and ends on May 25. There are 19 movies in the race so far, though Mr. Frémaux said there were likely to be additions.“You will see women directors, first films, Americans, zombies, genetic manipulations,” Mr. Frémaux said, adding that the titles in the competition would also feature “painters, singers, cops, parasites, violent mafiosos.”Screening out of the official competition is “Rocketman,” a biopic directed by Dexter Fletcher, whose world premiere will bring the superstar singer-songwriter Elton John to the Cannes red carpet.Another out-of-competition title is the documentary “Diego Maradona,” focusing on the Argentine soccer player and directed by Asif Kapadia, whose Amy Winehouse documentary drew critical acclaim.This year’s lineup is a mix of Cannes veterans — Marco Bellocchio of Italy, Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne of Belgium — and first-timers to the competition, such as all four of the female directors selected: Jessica Hausner, Céline Sciamma, Mati Diop and Justine Triet.[The directors Barry Jenkins and Claire Denis on filmmaking and rising stars like Mati Diop.] Thomas Sotinel, a film critic for the French newspaper Le Monde, said in a telphone interview that he saw their inclusion as a positive step in Cannes’ efforts to achieve a gender balance.“Four out of 19 is a little timid, statistically speaking, but it’s one more than last year, so there’s progress,” he said, noting that the four were all directors “at the start of their careers.”At the moment, there were “very few established female directors” in world cinema, besides Jane Campion or Claire Denis, he added. The only way to bring in more women was to bring in up-and-comers. “That’s how we’ll see renewal,” Mr. Sotinel said.Last year, the Cannes Film Festival missed out on Alfonso Cuarón’s “Roma” because it was a Netflix production. “Roma,” which premiered at the Venice Film Festival, went on to win the top Venice prize as well as three Academy Awards.The reason for the exclusion was that Cannes requires all competition titles to be released in French movie theaters. The rule is part of a system of subsidies and regulations with which France protects its homegrown film industry and preserves its nationwide network of cinemas.Mr. Frémaux said the rule remained in place, though he and the festival management had had regular conversations with Netflix, including one earlier this week. He said Netflix had no movies ready that would have been potentially eligible for the competition.The president of the festival, Pierre Lescure, told reporters at the Paris news conference that the French film industry would soon show more flexibility and that the mandated delay between a movie’s theatrical release and its release by a streaming service, currently up to three years, could be changed. Depending on a movie’s style and budget, that window could be narrowed, he explained.
SUNDAY PUZZLE — Natan Last has a tremendous record for introducing elegant new entries (how had we lived without CAFFEINE FIX?) and a sharp eye for the type of wordplay that sneaks up on you (and, if you’re me, keeps right on going, just overhead). This is one of those puzzles. The solve is greatly enhanced by today’s constructor notes, so glean what details you can from Mr. Last — he mentors, and teaches people how to do this stuff, and has the type of loopy and flexible mind that slots together intricate bits and pieces to form a cohesive whole. It’s quite amazing.We’ve had a run of prominent Sunday themes that underpin an entire big grid. A bright puzzle like this, where one has to tease the tendrils of the theme out during the entire solve, is a lot of fun and a little bit of a palate cleanser.Much inscrutability today in that tendriled theme — if you don’t find what you’re looking for here, move on down a section.7A: A heartbreaking state of affairs, in the days of waning print circulation and instant feedback, is the lonely journalist sitting in the dark with his or her analytics panel open anxiously watching the CLICKS. There’s no market for quality over quantity anymore. (All of you are quality clicks, friends. High-class clicks.)71A: I don’t know if you’ve spent time in Louisiana or otherwise had the opportunity to “fais do-do,” or make a party happen, but if you have, then “makin’ groceries” probably sounded CAJUN to you. 72A: These are both astrological signs and AUTOS. If you happened to wonder if there was ever a “Scorpio” car, there was! It was gorgeous.2D: C.B. radios and their lingo go back about a century, and members of the “10 code,” common or relevant phrases that are coded to the number 10 with another number, were used by the police in the 1930s to make communication easier. It makes sense that TEN ONE would establish, right off the bat, that communication via the radio was staticky, faint or otherwise difficult to understand. Intentionally or not, the crossing here with SHE BEAR was cute because that could be a female cop. If a SHE BEAR in a plain brown wrapper takes your picture and turns on the bubble gum machine, you might be about to get a driving award.6D: The Nylons sang “The Lion Sleeps Tonight” and the Rayons sang “Do You Love Me.” Three makes a (highly synthetic) pattern; I always figured these bands were using the fabric names to be modern and slick, but the ORLONS apparently took their name as a spoof of a popular group at their high school, the Cashmeres. This was not the Cashmeres, by the way, who also had hits in the 60s.41D: Who else had “egg roll” at first? White House propaganda. If you went straight to EGG HUNT, maybe you thought of the Easter beagle.77D: After a 40-plus year absence, this is the second appearance in a few months of GAY PAREE, which looks so odd but was, as spelled, the title of a 1926 Broadway musical revue, and also in a title of a Cole Porter song for the 1953 show “Can-Can.”93D: This might have been the crunchiest “straight” clue today, heralding the 21st-century debut of OTOMI, or Hñäñhü, people of Central Mexico. I had never put a name to these marvelous textiles, but the Otomi are known for beautiful embroidery.There is a fairly well-known sporting event on telly this evening, so your minds may have been tuned to that frequency already, and we have a theme today that revolves around sportsmanship, or rather lack thereof, in four major athletic leagues — M.L.B. baseball, N.F.L. football, FIFA soccer and N.B.A. basketball. We seem to be missing N.H.L. hockey, probably because it’s difficult to play attempted murder for laughs, and that is what it takes to get thrown out of a hockey match (or so I thought — more on that later).There are three layers to each sports “play,” we’ll call them. The first two are codependent so we’ll address them together.First, there are four italicized clues, each linked to another entry — these are at 28A (linking to 102A), 48A (linking to 105A), 64A (linking to 87A) and 86D (linking to 65A). Each of these italicized clues refers to a star from one of the above sports leagues, getting “ejected,” or thrown out, of the entry that’s linked.Second, we have those linked clues, referred to above. Each is straightforward, but too tricky to come up with, at least for me, without a ton of crossing letters filled in. Even then, though, there’s a problem. 
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump visited Alabama in the wake of destructive tornadoes there.“You saw things that you wouldn’t believe,” he told reporters in a neighborhood gravely damaged on Sunday by the storm outbreak, which left at least 23 people dead. He also visited a church serving as the hub of a volunteer relief effort, where he signed Bibles, pictured above.Back in Washington, his administration lost two advisers. Bill Shine, the White House communications director and former Fox News executive, resigned, and will work for President Trump’s re-election campaign. The Air Force secretary, Heather Wilson, said she would resign to become president at the University of Texas at El Paso. She is one of the highest-ranking women at the Pentagon.The president tweeted about both resignations, which he said were amicable, as well as Michael Cohen. He asserted that his former lawyer asked him directly for a pardon and was denied, which contradicts Mr. Cohen’s testimony._____2. A weak monthly jobs report clouded the economic picture.Just 20,000 new U.S. jobs were added — a small fraction of the 175,000 that analysts had expected. It was the weakest jobs report since September 2017. Still, wage growth and jobless figures are promising signs. Some saw the jobs news as a fluke, and others a troubling omen. Above, a worker in Lewiston, Me., helps to weatherproof a home.The report may have been tinged with aftereffects from the government shutdown. And one possibility is that the economy, which has added 20 million jobs during a decades-long expansion, is close to exhausting the supply of workers._____3. The U.S. women’s soccer team sued U.S. Soccer, accusing it of “institutionalized gender discrimination,” just three months before the Women’s World Cup.The discrimination, the athletes said, affects not only their paychecks but also where they play and how often, how they train, the medical treatment and coaching they receive, and even how they travel to matches. Above, the team at a tournament last week.It was a sudden and significant escalation of their yearslong fight over pay equity and working conditions. The team, which includes some of the world’s most famous female athletes, has been a leading force in women’s sports for more than a generation._____
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. British business braces for impact, President Trump gives an interview to The Times, and European teenagers become a protest vanguard. Here’s the latest: Companies across Britain, faced with confusion around the country’s pending departure from the E.U., have been stockpiling products, making backup plans and exploring new shipping routes. International banks are shifting thousands of jobs from Britain to the Continent.“It’s meant extra resources, extra overtime, to get it done,” said one executive. “It’s incredibly annoying.”By the numbers: Britain’s economy is 2.3 percent smaller than it would have been if voters in 2016 had opted to remain in the E.U., according to one research institution. And investment in the auto sector was found to have plunged by almost 50 percent in 2018.What’s next? Parliament remains mired in disagreement and the E.U. disinclined to reopen matters. Sixty days out from the March 29 deadline to leave the bloc, uncertainty is spreading.Come again? As a BBC anchor ended an evening news program by saying, “Theresa May says she intends to go back to Brussels to renegotiate her Brexit deal,” the screen showed grainy images of World War II planes that appeared to be Spitfires. Watch here. President Trump told our reporters in an 85-minute interview on Thursday that negotiations with Congress over his border wall were a “waste of time” and that he would proceed without lawmakers. This weekend he will retreat to Mar-a-Lago — his gilded club where all is well.Russia investigation: Mr. Trump denied an account by his former lawyer, Michael Cohen, that late in the 2016 presidential campaign he was still discussing a project to build a Trump-branded skyscraper in Moscow. He also claimed that his lawyers had been reassured by the outgoing deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, that the president himself is not a target of the special counsel, Robert Mueller. Here are five takeaways from what Mr. Trump said.Trade: Mr. Trump spoke immediately after wrapping up a session with China’s visiting vice premier in which the president said they had made progress toward defusing the trade war. In other Washington news: The Senate voted to pass nonbinding bipartisan legislation that objects to Mr. Trump’s withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan and Syria, the second time in two months that the Senate has rebuked the president’s foreign policy.“Police investigators, tax officers, pro-government tabloids” have become the hammers of President Aleksandar Vucic and his populist, conservative Serbian Progressive Party. That was the testimony to the Council in Europe in November of Nebojsa Zelenovic, the mayor of Sabac, one of the few places not controlled by the governing party.
ROYAN, France — Two years after a clandestine impromptu training session on the hills of Tehran, Sadaf Khadem will become the first Iranian woman to contest an official boxing fight, hoping to lead the way in the Islamic Republic.The bout will take place in western France on Saturday after the 24-year-old met with Frenchman Mahyar Monshipour, an Iranian-born former super bantamweight world champion."In 2017, I went to Iran for a promotional event and I ended up organizing a public training session on the hills overlooking Tehran. About 35 people showed up, and there were six women," Monshipour told Reuters."She contacted me on social media to ask me to make her box but I told her it was not possible. Then about a couple of months ago the Iranian federation opened the door for women boxing and we asked them to set up an event. "But it became apparent that it would not be possible because they wanted a female coach, female referee... so with the help of the Sports ministry we made her come to France."Next week Khadem will return to Iran, where Monshipour expects her to be met with 'popular jubilation'. He will, however, travel back with her, just in case, to a country where women have started to take off their head scarves in a peaceful protest against the compulsory hijab."If she ends up in custody, I will not let her down," he said. Khadem took up boxing four years ago, being compelled to train in private fitness rooms since public boxing facilities are reserved for men. In Iran, women were allowed to attend a men's soccer game for the first last October."It is easier for wrestling and weightlifting because they are more in our culture," Khadem told Reuters after a training session on Thursday. BREAK THE DAMSome women fight but the bouts are illegal and being held in Turkey with no medical insurance. In France, Khadem trained at the National Institute of Sport and was handed a French license to practice and fight.For the first time she trained among men, and she burst into tears at the end of a session, overwhelmed by her emotions."My parents were worried when I started boxing but they saw I was really loving it so now they are supporting me. I'm now steaming ahead," said Khadem.
BRUSSELS — European summits, jaded Englishmen have said, are like soccer: they go into extra-time, and the Germans always win.For the journalists covering them, it is like commentating live on a match played behind closed doors: only partial information leaks out from self-promoting rival players, and even when it’s over, the final score is often far from clear.Another high-stakes summit coming up on Wednesday is likely to be a replay of the same fixture 10 days ago, when British Prime Minister Theresa May sat in late-night talks with fellow EU leaders trying to delay Brexit until June.Hundreds of journalists were gathered in the cavernous atrium of the Justus Lipsius Building, home to the European Council of EU national leaders.For Reuters, the game starts days before such summits begin. Reporters tap their sources in capitals across Europe and EU institutions in Brussels, trying to work out who wants what from the meeting.When the leaders file in, talking to cameras without translators in the 24 EU languages, our multilingual team relays their words instantly.Once they're in, the summit match starts in earnest.Last month, May began the closed-door meeting by explaining her plans and taking questions from peers. She was looking for an extension to the Brexit deadline to give her more time to try to win backing from Britain’s parliament for her plan to exit the European Union.The first sign of a story was that May's presentation before she had to leave the room lasted well over an hour, much longer than previous such sessions. But was that good or bad for Theresa May?One UK government source told us it had gone "OK". But our sources among EU officials and national diplomats made clear in hushed conversations and text messages that it had gone "very badly" for her indeed.A flurry of contradictory messages and rumors began to emerge. This is when reporters need to hold their nerve, when the urge to be quick can compete with the need to be right.As the other 27 discussed May's pitch among themselves, French President Emmanuel Macron was pushing to end the agony and get Britain out almost immediately. German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged caution. Europe's power couple huddled with summit chair Donald Tusk, drafting and redrafting a response to Britain.Outside the room, Bulgaria's ambassador tweeted a picture, worthy of Caravaggio, of envoys crowding round one version on a screen. (https://twitter.com/DTzantchev/status/1108807850397261826)Hours later, as reporters started preparing for yet another all-nighter, Reuters got word from upstairs of the breakthrough: a two-stage approach that might mean Brexit in May, or April. First word from one source a little after 10 p.m. meant rapid checks with others.At nearly midnight, all was confirmed in a flurry of news conferences. By 2 a.m. our final stories were published, a much earlier finish than some EU summits.
PARIS — President Emmanuel Macron of France said on Sunday that he wanted to create a national day of commemoration for the 1994 genocide in Rwanda, which has been a longstanding source of tension between the two countries.Mr. Macron said in a statement that he wanted to create a national day of remembrance on April 7, the date 25 years ago that Rwanda’s Hutu majority began systematically massacring members of the Tutsi minority, leaving an estimated 800,000 to one million people dead.“On this day of commemoration for the 25th anniversary of the Tutsi genocide in Rwanda, the president of the republic expresses his solidarity with the Rwandan people and his compassion for the victims and their families,” the statement said.Rwanda, led by President Paul Kagame, has long accused France of complicity in the genocide and of helping some of the perpetrators escape, poisoning ties between the two countries, even though relations have warmed since Mr. Macron’s election in 2017.France has been accused of providing weapons and military training to the Hutu-dominated government in the years that led up to the genocide, and of failing to prevent or even supporting the massacres when they started, despite the presence of French peacekeeping soldiers.Ibuka France, a group that advocates remembrance of the genocide, praised Mr. Macron’s announcement. Marcel Kabanda, the head of the group, told Agence France-Presse that Ibuka France had suggested the idea in a meeting with Mr. Macron on Friday.Mr. Macron did not say what the day of commemoration would entail or how he would create it. He could proceed by decree, or have his government present a bill in Parliament, where his party has a majority in the more powerful lower house.France has admitted mistakes in how it handled the killings but has always denied the accusations of complicity. After meeting with survivors and members of Ibuka France on Friday, Mr. Macron ordered a two-year government study of France’s role in the genocide.The study will be led by a commission of eight historians and researchers. They will have access to official French archives covering the period between 1990 and 1994 in order to “analyze the role and involvement of France” during the massacres and to help shape French school curriculums, Mr. Macron said.In Rwanda, a week of commemorations started on Sunday, as did 100 days of mourning for victims of the genocide. Mr. Kagame laid a wreath and lit a flame at the Gisozi memorial site in Kigali, the capital. Over 250,000 people are believed to be buried at the site.A remembrance walk was scheduled to go from the Rwandan Parliament building to the national soccer stadium. Several heads of state were expected to attend, but not Mr. Macron, who sent Hervé Berville, a member of France’s Parliament and survivor of the Rwandan genocide, as his representative.Mr. Berville, 29, was evacuated by the French Army at the age of 4 and adopted by a couple in Brittany. He was part of the wave of first-time politicians elected to the lower house of Parliament in 2017 for Mr. Macron’s party.“It is both a source of pride and a great responsibility to go there to represent France,” Mr. Berville told RFI radio on Tuesday.Mr. Macron also announced last week that more resources would be granted to the French judicial authorities who are working to identify and prosecute those suspected of perpetrating the genocide, some of whom fled to France after the violence ended.
Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union has provoked months of bitter division, but on Friday there was a break in the routine: an outbreak of affection and good will.In a tenderly written missive to Britons, more than two dozen leading figures in Germany — including Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, the favorite to become the country’s next chancellor — described their admiration for many things British, including its tea and beer, and their sorrow over the impending divorce.“After the horrors of the Second World War, Britain did not give up on us,” said the open letter published in The Times, the British newspaper favored by the establishment. It emphasized Germany’s appreciation that it had been welcomed back as a sovereign nation after the conflict and as a European power.“This we, as Germans, have not forgotten and we are grateful,” the letter went on, concluding that “Britons should know: From the bottom of our hearts, we want them to stay.”Norbert Röttgen, head of the German Parliament’s Committee on Foreign Affairs, who co-wrote the letter, said the signers decided they needed to say something after this week’s defeat of the British prime minister’s Brexit proposal.“The time was ripe to make sure that we raise our voice, and that we try to make it a German voice, to let the Brits know that while we fully respect what they decide, we do consider it a European affair,” Mr. Röttgen said. “We wanted to say what we feel, to express our convictions and our deep emotions.”[Read about an unlikely Brexit star, and villain: the speaker of the British House of Commons.]The intervention comes at a critical moment in Britain following the crushing rejection on Tuesday of Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan for withdrawal from the European Union, or Brexit. There is growing speculation that the deadlock could lead to a general election or a second referendum that might reverse the whole idea.It is unclear whether a lovebomb from figures as varied as the Airbus chief, Thomas Enders, and the punk rock singer Campino will have much impact. But at least one signatory to the letter commands some name recognition in Britain: Jens Lehmann, the former goalkeeper of Germany’s national soccer team.Behind the initiative lies concern in Berlin over the prospect that Britain may leave the European Union without an agreement, with economically damaging consequences for the entire continent.While the European Union — and especially France — took a tough line in negotiating the withdrawal, Britain and Germany have often agreed on economic issues in Brussels. But Brexit is destined to change the internal balance within the European Union, removing a country that has often been useful to Berlin politically and a big financial contributor to the bloc.Britons’ reaction to the letter was mixed, with some commenting on its folksy focus on the country’s “legendary black humor,” drinking tea with milk, Christmas pantomime and driving on the left.As enemies in two world wars in the 20th century, the two countries have a complicated relationship. Germany’s affection for Britain is not always reciprocated, despite widespread respect for the German postwar economic miracle and its modern-day success.Sporting rivalry is particularly fierce in soccer, where the record has at times been so grim for England that Gary Lineker, the TV host and former England international player, once described it as a game where “22 men chase a ball for 90 minutes and at the end, the Germans always win.”Whether the intervention will help or hinder the pro-Europeans in Britain’s Brexit debate is a moot point, as the British are prickly about anything that could be construed as outside interference in political discussions.
The shaky video clips of Julian Assange’s arrest flashed around the world on Thursday, the white-bearded prophet of the age of leaks being hauled by unsmiling security officers to a gray van marked Police.“We must resist!” he cried. “You can resist!” It was a scene that the very image-conscious Mr. Assange might appreciate: one man literally fighting the all-powerful state.It was also the latest — and surely not the last — dramatic turn in a career marked by both brilliant achievement and dubious judgment. Mr. Assange has long had a knack for celebrity, and as a tech-savvy, global, almost stateless figure, he captured the new influence the internet could give to individual citizens.[Read more about the arrest of Julian Assange.]His creation of WikiLeaks helped empower a generation of whistle-blowers and disgruntled insiders who could operate on an industrial scale, providing disclosures by the terabyte and enraging the powerful in many countries. WikiLeaks collaborated closely with major world publications, including The New York Times, in the release of secret records on the American-led wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and a quarter-million confidential State Department cables.But Mr. Assange has always elicited fervent reactions: He has been hailed as a hero of free information, or despised as a treacherous criminal worthy of death by drone — often depending on what WikiLeaks had recently been up to. Though he has always described himself as a journalist, he has been far too much of an activist to be satisfied with the role of neutral and fair-minded provider of information.He has proved a highly problematic, even embarrassing champion for the principles of press freedom and the public’s right to information, especially in recent years. For the past seven, he was hiding out at Ecuador’s tiny redbrick embassy in London, not just from American prosecutors, but also from Swedish sex-crime investigators, who eventually closed their case.Mr. Assange, the world’s most famous self-proclaimed political refugee, lived there with his cat in a small corner room. He continued to run WikiLeaks, conducted news conferences before hundreds of fawning admirers from a balcony, rode his skateboard in the halls and played host to a parade of visitors, including Lady Gaga and Pamela Anderson, a rumored lover who brought with her vegan sandwiches.The arrest came at the end of a meandering legal path that began in 2010, when the Justice Department announced it was investigating WikiLeaks. Obama administration officials eventually dropped the idea, persuaded by press advocates that prosecuting WikiLeaks would set a dangerous precedent because many mainstream news organizations regularly publish classified information.In 2016, some of Mr. Assange’s former American sympathizers turned sharply against him after he made WikiLeaks into an enthusiastic instrument of Russia’s intervention in the American presidential election, doling out hacked Democratic emails to maximize their political effect, campaigning against Hillary Clinton on Twitter and promoting a false cover story about the source of the leaks.That performance drew voluble praise from her opponent, Donald J. Trump, who regularly read from leaked Clinton campaign emails in his 2016 stump speeches and declared, “I love WikiLeaks.” But months later, while he was president, WikiLeaks posted a collection of classified documents on the C.I.A.’s hacking tools, and Mr. Trump’s first C.I.A. chief, Mike Pompeo, called Mr. Assange “a narcissist” and labeled the organization “a nonstate hostile intelligence service.”His words were a harbinger of the single charge of conspiracy to commit computer intrusion against Mr. Assange that the Justice Department unsealed on Thursday.In some ways, Mr. Assange, 47, has never fully shed the rebellious, secretive ways of the precocious Australian teenager with a complicated family background who, with two pals, formed a hacking collective called the International Subversives. In the 1997 book “Underground,” a lengthy account of the young hackers written by Suelette Dreyfus and crediting Mr. Assange as “researcher,” a hacker with the nickname Mendax clearly resembles the young Julian.Mendax found the small Australian town where Mr. Assange lived with his mother, Emerald, “dead boring,” the book says. “Sometimes Mendax went to school. Often he didn’t. The school system didn’t hold much interest for him.” A vulnerable computer network in Sydney, the book says, “was a far more interesting place to muck around in than the rural high school.”In 1991, at age 20, Mr. Assange was charged with a long list of hacking offenses, to which he pleaded guilty and got off with a fine and a warning. “There is just no evidence that there was anything other than sort of intelligent inquisitiveness and the pleasure of being able to — what’s the expression — surf through these various computers,” the judge said at his sentencing, according to an account in The New Yorker.
KNUTSFORD, England — That day, Raheem Sterling looked up, and tuned in. Ordinarily when he is on the field, he loses himself so completely in the game that the noise of the crowd becomes an indistinct murmur, each voice lost in the hum of tens of thousands.But as Sterling approached the touchline to collect the ball for a corner kick in Manchester City’s Premier League game at Chelsea on Dec. 8, something forced him to switch his focus.He remembers making eye contact with a handful of fans in the front row of the Matthew Harding Stand at Stamford Bridge. Like all players, and as one of his country’s best players, he is used to hostility, particularly away from home. But what he could see was different. It looked, to him, like hatred.“The way they were looking at me, I had to see where all this anger was coming from,” he said. “I was listening in to hear what they were saying.” What he picked up, he said, he dismissed immediately: “Nah, that can’t be what I heard.”Video suggested his suspicion was right. One fan, in particular, appeared to have screamed a racial obscenity at him. The consequences added credence: Not long after the game ended, Chelsea announced it had barred four fans from attending games, pending an investigation into whether Sterling had been racially abused. The incident was reported to the London police. It was neither Sterling’s first racist encounter — as a teenager, he once was head-butted by a stranger on a Liverpool street — nor the first time he had experienced racism in an English stadium. In his first match at Everton’s Goodison Park after joining Manchester City, he said, he was walking toward the tunnel when a boy with his father called him a “black something.”As he left Stamford Bridge that evening in December, though, Sterling, 24, kept churning over what he had heard, what had happened. By the time he returned to Manchester, he decided that it was “too much now.” He wanted to say something.He spent all night thinking of the best way to do it. He did some research, got his thoughts in order. The next morning, as he sat in the back seat of a car on the 30-minute drive from his home to Manchester City’s training facility, he composed a 207-word message to accompany his thoughts. It focused not just on what had happened at Stamford Bridge, but why. Sterling posted it, with two images, to his Instagram account.“I am not normally the person to talk a lot,” the message began. “But when I think I need my point to be heard I will speak up.”A few weeks ago, Sterling returned to visit friends near Wembley, the part of northwest London where he grew up. He remains intimately connected to the place: He said he was in discussions with the local council to find an appropriate site for a sporting and educational institute, somewhere to provide opportunities for children (and their parents) from backgrounds similar to his.It is a personal and, until now, a private thing, something he says is less his responsibility as a professional athlete and more an innate desire to “show light” to a new generation. He wants his story to give others like him hope.“Not just to be a footballer,” Sterling said, “but to do whatever they want to do.”It is not hard to find inspiration in Sterling’s rise. His story has long been crowbarred into the narrative often expected of athletes: the deprived upbringing, the triumph over adversity, that comforting fairy tale told of so many athletes in which greatness flowers best in soil left untended.His father was shot dead in Jamaica when he was 2. His mother moved to England in the hope of giving her children a better life. Sterling remembers her “fight to get jobs,” the long hours she put in, the days he and his sister would help her clean hotel rooms before school.Sterling has always been keen not to allow exaggerations to flourish, to correct any poetic license taken by those telling his story. In 2016, he told The Mail on Sunday that his childhood home was not in a “rough, rough” area; in a piece for The Players’ Tribune last year, he said that while his family never had much money, his mother always made sure he and his sister had what they needed.
DAKAR, Senegal — They sprint. They sweat. They squat to the ground and bounce backward. They sit side-by-side and lock arms for group situps. They dig trenches in the sand for stability, to get more out of each push up.And, then, when the rush-hour traffic really backs up and exhaust fumes pour across this little, sandy triangle of an outdoor gym bordered by a highway and two exit ramps, sometimes the athletes vomit.“Sports and pollution,” said Joseph Faye, a wrestling coach who was grappling with other young men there on a recent evening, “they don’t go together.”Increasingly in Dakar, where outdoor exercise is a way of life, the two are colliding.On any given evening, thousands of runners, wrestlers, soccer players and fitness fanatics take to the beaches and streets for a strenuous workout.Practically the whole city transforms into a California-like muscle beach with bodies grunting and panting and pushing themselves to extremes on any empty patch of land.Sprinters mount a lighthouse-topped hill or fly down the steps leading from a grand mosque. Body builders lift chunks of broken concrete and heave themselves up on a rusty metal rod stretched across two wooden poles.Backward exercising is a thing, with throngs of people squatting and sprinting in reverse.But with every breath, these exercisers are inhaling air that the World Health Organization considers dangerous. Dakar’s air exceeds by more than five times the limits set by the World Health Organization of the amount of small particles that when inhaled can damage health.The air in Dakar, with its windswept coastal roadway and waves lapping against craggy bluffs, sometimes can appear deceptively clear.Other times, especially this time of year when a dust storm rolls in and traffic backs up, it can feel like walking through a cloud of chalk dust after someone bangs two erasers together, inside an oven.“It’s a real problem for respiratory diseases,” said Nafissatou Oumar Toure Badiane, the chief of pulmonology at Fann University Hospital in Dakar, who noted that the number of childhood asthma cases at one of the city’s biggest hospitals had recently jumped.She estimated that a third of the population has some kind of lung ailment.And there are signs that air quality here is getting worse.Dakar is growing, having almost doubled in size in the past decade as people pour in from the countryside and nearby nations in search of jobs. Some of its five million inhabitants are farmers who have given up in the wake of chronic drought dating to the 70s.
DUBLIN — Ireland's state-funded sport coordination body suspended future funding to the Football Association of Ireland (FAI) on Tuesday after the football body acknowledged that it failed to comply with its grant approval terms.Sport Ireland, which has been demanding answers from the FAI over a 100,000 euro (£86,451) short-term loan provided to it by former chief executive John Delaney, said the acknowledgement was made in a written statement the FAI was due to deliver to a parliamentary committee on Wednesday.Delaney, who was moved to a new role of executive vice-president at the FAI shortly after details of the loan were first reported, is due to appear before the committee with other officials on Wednesday to answer questions over a story that has made frontpage news in Ireland in the last month.In the FAI's statement to the committee, a copy of which was seen by Reuters, chairman Donal Conway said circumstances arose in April 2017 -- when it received the loan -- that were not related to Sport Ireland in line with grant approval conditions.The FAI said last month that the loan was needed due to short-term cash flow issues and that it was repaid in full two months later. Sport Ireland, however, said it was never notified about any deterioration in finances, as the FAI would have been obliged to do. "The Board of Sport Ireland will consider the reinstatement of funding once all ongoing reports commissioned by the FAI have been completed and the recommendations adopted," it said in a statement, referring to reviews the FAI has commissioned from audit firm Mazars and accountant Grant Thornton.The FAI, which generated a retained surplus of 2.8 million euros on revenues of 49 million in 2017, its last set of published reports, receives annual funding of 2.7 million euros from the state. It has already drawn down half of it for 2019.The FAI said it was unfortunate Sport Ireland felt compelled to suspend the funding, which was crucial to the development of Irish soccer."The Association is keen to restore trust and confidence and rebuild the relationship with Sport Ireland as soon as possible," FAI chairman Conway said in a statement.Lawmakers due to quiz the FAI on Wednesday welcomed the suspension and said they would also seek answers about the decision to move Delaney to another position in the association."It's a damning indictment that such shoddy financial and corporate governance practices were permitted. Hopefully this is the start of a real change," Noel Rock, a member of the governing Fine Gael party, said on Twitter. (Reporting by Padraic Halpin; Editing by Hugh Lawson and Toby Davis)
(Reuters) - Brazil's female footballers have made great strides in growing their domestic game but they lack the organisation to emulate the United States team and demand the same pay and conditions as men, defender Erika told Reuters on Tuesday.The Brazilian Football Confederation (CBF) this year obliged all first division clubs to create a women's side and are funding them directly, officials said.But their income is still vastly inferior to their male counterparts and Erika said she is envious of the World Cup-winning U.S. squad, 28 of whom sued the U.S. Soccer Federation last month in a lawsuit that includes complaints about wages and working conditions."I think it is sensational what the U.S. players did," she said in a phone interview from Spain, the day after Brazil lost 1-0 to Scotland in a friendly, their ninth consecutive defeat."We have the strength to do the same in Brazil but we don't have courage or the (people) to guide us."The U.S. women are a gigantic force. They have won a lot and that makes it easier for them to fight for what they want. We need to be united but we haven't managed that."Erika blamed that lack of unity on geography. Most of the Brazilian women play their club football outside the country and get together only for international games, which makes organising more difficult."I think distance is a problem," the 31-year-old Corinthians defender said. "The principal players are based outside the country and that makes it more complicated, if they were all able to be here it would make it easier to develop, and we'd be stronger. "Sadly, we still think individually."The Brazilian players nevertheless looked at recent big crowds for women's matches in Spain and Italy – a world record 60,739 people turned out to see Atletico Madrid take on Barcelona last month - as indicative of the growing power of the female game.Women's football has gained a higher profile this year in Brazil, with the CBF paying to help women's teams compete in the 16-team first division and also setting up a second division and under-18 league. "Without a doubt here has been a huge growth and there is a long way to go," Erika said. "I want to see the kind of crowds we saw in Madrid in Brazil. It inspires us."Brazil are one of 24 teams who will take part in the Women's World Cup in France from June 7-July 7. (Reporting by Andrew Downie; Editing by Christian Radnedge)
MANCHESTER, England — Not once, no matter how bad the temptation or how high the stakes or how deep his frustration, has Pep Guardiola done what he is supposed to do. He has not called Liverpool lucky, or hinted at a conspiracy among referees in awarding penalties at Anfield, or questioned whether his chief rival had the resolve to stay the course.Instead, Guardiola, the Manchester City manager, has been unremittingly, unapologetically positive. Liverpool and its manager, Jürgen Klopp, kept him awake at night, he said earlier this season. He has called Klopp the best manager in the world for crafting high-energy teams. He has said, as recently as last week, that he expects Liverpool to win all of its remaining games in the Premier League.Klopp, of course, has been just as bad. Manchester City, he said around Christmas, is the best team in the world. A few weeks later, he said he had tried to find a weakness in Guardiola’s team, and come up short.This is not the usual timbre of discourse in a Premier League title race, particularly one so delicately poised that at this late stage, a single misstep from one would, most likely, hand the crown to the other. Much more familiar is the sort of playground psychological warfare practiced by Alex Ferguson and José Mourinho, where every word was a provocation.Initially, then, it was easy to assume that Klopp and Guardiola were simply trying to kill each other with kindness, even if it was not immediately clear what advantage, for example, Klopp’s describing Manchester City as “the best team in the world” might confer on Liverpool.So powerful is the legacy of Ferguson, so deep-seated the obsession with mind games, that it has taken a while to realize that there are no thorns hidden among the garlands, to remember that praise can have a function other than piling pressure on an opponent. Not everything is a play. Klopp admires the team Guardiola has built. Guardiola respects the transformation Klopp has overseen. It is the same among the players: Virgil van Dijk has voted for Raheem Sterling as player of the year. The ultimate destination of the title will not change that. Compliments can be sincere.With the race so tight — Liverpool (82 points) ahead at the moment, but City (80) with a game in hand — that mutual admiration does not extend to the fans of the two clubs, of course. There is no particular historical enmity between Manchester City and Liverpool, but over the last year a distinctly modern rivalry has started to take shape.At first, it seemed to manifest primarily online, performative and point-scoring, in which Liverpool resented City’s wealth, ambition and relevance, and City chafed at Liverpool’s history and fame. Over the last year that has changed, bleeding into the three-dimensional world, invoked in songs that sweep down from the stands at the Etihad Stadium, in particular.The great flash point, of course, was the attack on Manchester City’s team bus outside Anfield before last year’s meeting in the Champions League quarterfinals, an act met with outright and understandable fury by City. The direct competition between the teams this season, the fact that their fortunes are so inextricably intertwined, has served only to oxidize it.Even as the animus on the outside has hardened, relations on the inside remain cordial. When an article appeared earlier this year suggesting Fenway Sports Group, Liverpool’s owner, was leading a campaign to persuade the Premier League to investigate Manchester City’s breaches of Financial Fair Play rules, Liverpool moved quickly to offer City assurances that was not the case.The connections are even closer among the staff. Two of Liverpool’s senior scouts, Dave Fallows and Barry Hunter, were recruited from City; so, too, was Lee Nobes, the head physiotherapist; Mona Nemmer, Klopp’s head of nutrition, worked with Guardiola at Bayern Munich (and made such an impression that when he first arrived in England, Guardiola asked if the clubs might be able to share her expertise).Rodolfo Borrell, a key member of Guardiola’s coaching staff, meanwhile, made his name at Barcelona, but was first brought to England by Liverpool; he spent more than four years on Merseyside before moving to City in 2014. Darren Hughes, the lead coach at City’s academy, is among three staff members hired from Liverpool the same year.There is a limit to those bonds, of course. There is a lingering sense among some at City that Liverpool is offered preferential treatment by the news media, has a larger contingent of former players in television studios than is easily justified and receives rather more coverage than its recent achievements warrant. After the team waited three decades for a championship, Liverpool’s desperation is plain; for City, the pleasure of a fourth title in seven years would be heightened by the identity of its vanquished opponent.In a way, though, each team should be grateful for the other. City’s excellence has served to accelerate Liverpool’s improvement, persuading Fenway Sports Group to make Alisson Becker (briefly) the world’s most expensive goalkeeper, and to turn van Dijk into the costliest defender in history. City had set such high standards that there was simply no other choice but to invest; anything else would have been acquiescence to fate.And while Manchester City fans might have found last season’s procession to the title — when City became the first team in history to record 100 points — substantially less stressful, Liverpool’s emergence as a genuine rival has not diminished City’s greatness. Rather, it has accentuated it.
JACKSON COUNTY, Tenn. — Authorities say a diver who helped save a youth soccer team from a flooded cave in Thailand last year has himself been rescued from a cave in Tennessee.Jackson County Emergency Management spokesman Derek Woolbright said Josh Bratchley had been missing for nearly 28 hours when he was found Wednesday night and pulled from the cave. He was checked out at the scene, but said he was fine and declined medical treatment.Woolbright told news outlets that a group of experienced divers had reported one of its members missing after a dive. A larger search found him in an air pocket.Bratchley was part of a British team that rescued 12 soccer players and their coach from a flooded cave in Thailand.
LIVERPOOL, England — Mohamed Salah’s name flashed up on the scoreboard. It rang out of Anfield’s public address system. It rolled and roiled down the stands and washed onto the field and into the sky, infused with jubilation and wonder, with relief and belief.It was, though, wishful thinking. The last-minute goal that had given Liverpool an ill-deserved and scarcely explicable 2-1 victory against Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday, the strike that restored Jürgen Klopp’s team to the top of the Premier League — until Wednesday, at least — and that ensured Manchester City still cannot, technically, afford even one slip did not belong to Salah. Deep down, everyone in the stadium knew the truth: the goal, if it belonged to anyone, belonged to chaos.There is a tendency, as seasons draw to a close and prizes begin to be claimed, to imbue certain moments with particular importance, to believe that specific games and specific goals were not just decisive but defining: when trophies were won and lost, the fulcrum on which the whole season turned, the proof of the gray hand of destiny at work.Fans do it. Managers do it. Journalists and commentators do it, without fail, pretty much every Monday, obsessive saturation coverage demanding that no sooner have events ended than conclusions are drawn, that no weekend must pass without one thing or another having been decided or proved or finished. It is sport’s nod to Thomas Carlyle: a great moment theory of history.It is a comforting idea. By appointing certain moments as key, the long, exhausting stretch of a season comes to seem — even if only in retrospect — somehow more ordered; a structured, coherent whole seems to bloom from a morass of happenstance. It allows us to apportion merit, and blame, and to establish the parameters and boundaries of success. It means we can make sense of the randomness.It is, though, a myth. Seasons are, by definition, collections of moments; discerning which one is the one on which everything hinged, which one is more important than all the others, is an impossibility.For Liverpool this season, there have been half a dozen, at least. Daniel Sturridge’s late equalizer at Chelsea, way back in September, the goal that maintained an unbeaten start to the campaign; Divock Origi’s freakish winner in December’s Merseyside derby; the late penalty missed by Riyad Mahrez in October that ensured Manchester City did not win at Anfield; Origi’s miss, deep into injury time, against West Ham in February (for a reserve who has barely played this year, Origi seems to have been identified by fate as a person of immense interest).It is the same, of course, for City. The defending Premier League champion has seemed, at times, almost to breeze through much of the season, sweeping inferior opponents aside with little fuss and considerable style, but there are instants City will remember, too: the missed chances in defeat to Chelsea, perhaps, or Ricardo Pereira’s late winner for Leicester City; the shot from Sadio Mané that, somehow, did not cross the line when Liverpool visited the Etihad Stadium; the shot from Leroy Sané that, later on that evening, very much did.These are all the moments on which the season turned; not all of them can be worthy of that title. There were two alone in the final 10 minutes of Sunday’s game. First, Moussa Sissoko burst clear for Tottenham, only Virgil Van Dijk and Alisson Becker standing in his way, the chance not just to inflict untold damage Liverpool’s title hopes in his grasp. Van Dijk forced him to shoot; his effort rose and rose, flying high over the crossbar. Anfield breathed again.And then, with just a minute left to play, Trent Alexander-Arnold lifted in a cross — first time, too high, more in hope than expectation — and Salah, ghosting in at the far post, managed to meet it. His header was soft, and straight at Hugo Lloris; the moment seemed to have gone. For reasons that remain unclear, Lloris fumbled the ball. It fell onto Toby Alderweireld’s foot, and dribbled, in comical slow motion, across the line. Salah wheeled away in celebration, claiming the goal as his own, as if he only needed to believe it to make it so.It was not his goal, though. It was Alderweireld’s, if it was anyone’s, but really it was a strike against the idea that, even at this most rarefied level, there is a navigable structure to events. It was a reminder that not everything happens for a reason, that there is no overarching narrative, other than that which will be retrofitted with the benefit of hindsight; that sometimes, everything is chaos.The consequence is that, as the Premier League enters its final stretch, Liverpool has a two-point lead, but Manchester City has a game in hand. The former has the greater pressure, a three-decade wait for a league championship bearing down on a group of players who have never won a trophy together. The latter has the greater workload, with a game roughly every three days between now and mid-May, should progress be assured both in the Champions League and F.A. Cup.City is the favorite. Liverpool, as Klopp has said on several occasions, refuses to go away. The test now, perhaps, is how well Pep Guardiola’s team can cope with its hectic schedule as it chases glory on four fronts, and how well Liverpool can manage its nerves.The closest Premier League title race since 2012 will be settled by whichever frays first. Nothing, ultimately, is finished yet. All of those moments have come and gone. All of them have felt significant, seismic, in their immediate aftermath, little shafts of clarity in the overwhelming mood of uncertainty that descends on a situation this tight, this tense.There are six weeks to play, a handful of games, and there is still only one slip, one failure of concentration, one poor performance, in it. None of those moments has proved decisive: ultimately, irrevocably decisive. That is, as of now, still to come. It is April, and the season has not yet turned.
NEW YORK — Taylor Swift, TV journalist Gayle King and soccer star Mohamed Salah are among the six famous faces featured on the covers of Time's annual "100 Most Influential People in the World" issue.The other cover stars also included House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and actors Sandra Oh and Dwayne Johnson.Fellow Democrat Hillary Clinton wrote Pelosi "is living proof that when it comes to getting the job done, more often than not, it takes a woman."Johnson was praised for establishing a positive work environment, while Oh is cited for her creative life.Musician Shawn Mendes wrote Swift "makes anyone older feel young again."The issue is comprised of short tributes written by fellow global luminaries throughout all industries.Beyoncé penned an essay on former first lady Michelle Obama. President Donald Trump and Special Counsel Robert Mueller were also on this year's list.___This story has been corrected to show the singer's last name is Mendes, not Mendez, and the soccer star's last name is Salah, not Saleh.
Nevada law enforcement officials investigating a sexual-assault accusation against the soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo have requested a sample of the player’s DNA from the Italian authorities, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department confirmed Thursday evening.Mr. Ronaldo, a Portuguese wing and five-time world player of the year, plays in Italy for the powerhouse club Juventus.“The LVMPD is taking the same steps in this case as in any other sexual assault to facilitate the collection of DNA evidence,” Laura Meltzer, a spokeswoman for the Las Vegas police, said in a statement. The department declined to give any additional information about the investigation.Investigators are seeking the DNA sample as part of a recently reopened investigation into accusations by an American woman, Kathryn Mayorga, who said Mr. Ronaldo raped her in a Las Vegas hotel room in 2009 and later paid her $375,000 for her silence.“Mr. Ronaldo has always maintained, as he does today, that what occurred in Las Vegas in 2009 was consensual in nature, so it is not surprising that DNA would be present, nor that the police would make this very standard request as part of their investigation,” one of Ronaldo’s lawyers, Peter S. Christiansen, said in a statement Thursday.Juventus declined to comment.Mr. Ronaldo and his lawyers repeatedly denied the rape accusation when it first emerged in October; Mr. Ronaldo labeled them “fake news” in a video posted on one of his social media accounts, and at one point his lawyers threatened to sue the German newsmagazine that was the first to publish Mayorga’s accusations.The magazine, Der Spiegel, said it had obtained confidential documents related to the case, and the purported payment to settle it, from the shadowy whistle-blower platform Football Leaks. Around the same time, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said it had reopened its investigation into the alleged rape, following up on information it said had been provided to them by the victim.A number of the documents Ms. Mayorga’s lawyers say support her claim were published by Der Spiegel, which also published a lengthy interview with Ms. Mayorga. Mr. Ronaldo’s lawyers described the publication of the documents, which included a questionnaire Der Spiegel said detailed events that occurred in a suite at the Palms hotel almost a decade ago, as “blatantly illegal.”Mr. Ronaldo, now 33, was a star at England’s Manchester United when he met Ms. Mayorga, now 35, at a Las Vegas nightclub in 2009, just before his record-breaking transfer to Real Madrid. He invited her and others to his suite in the early hours of June 13, 2009, she said.According to her lawsuit, Ms. Mayorga reported the assault to the police later that day and received a medical examination, during which evidence was collected in what is sometimes known as a rape kit. The Las Vegas police have acknowledged that Ms. Mayorga filed a report and was examined, but the police said she did not name her attacker at that time. The case was reopened at Ms. Mayorga’s request in September.News of the warrant came two days after a second woman, Jasmine Lennard, an English model and reality television star who previously wrote a tell-all about her relationship with Mr. Ronaldo, accused him of violent behavior in a series of posts on Twitter.In more than a dozen posts, Ms. Lennard said Mr. Ronaldo had threatened to “have me kidnapped and have my body cut up and put in a bag and thrown in a river” if she dated somebody else. She also tweeted offers of help to Ms. Mayorga’s lawyers.She did not share the “hundreds of messages” she said she had kept, however, and later deleted her Twitter account. In a statement provided to a British newspaper, Mr. Ronaldo’s legal team said the player had never had contact with Ms. Lennard, and would take “appropriate legal action in due course.”Ms. Lennard could not be reached for comment on her accusations.
The organizing committee of FIFA announced Monday that it would recommend the use of video assistant referee technology at the Women’s World Cup this summer, bringing refereeing advances introduced at the men’s World Cup in Russia last year to soccer’s most important women’s championship for the first time. The decision, which is expected to be approved by the governing FIFA Council when it meets later this month in Miami, is a victory for women’s soccer players, coaches and fans who have highlighted gender equality issues in the international game.The technology, known by the acronym V.A.R., allows the on-field referee to consult with a colleague viewing video replays to help confirm, or overturn, close calls in a narrow set of instances. It was fully implemented for the first time at a major FIFA tournament last summer at the men’s World Cup, where FIFA hailed its introduction as a rousing success.But as the 2019 Women’s World Cup came into view, FIFA repeatedly declined to confirm whether V.A.R. would be at that competition as well, turning the issue into another flash point — alongside artificial turf fields and unequal compensation and bonuses — in the broader gender equity debate in soccer.On the V.A.R. point, at least, the debate seems finally to be settled.Gianni Infantino, the president of FIFA, said last weekend that he supported the use of the technology at the women’s event in June, stating that it was proving effective at discouraging the type of diving and playacting that often plague major soccer tournaments.“Players now know that it’s not just sufficient to have a look where is the referee, so if he doesn’t see me I can simulate, because he or she will be caught,” Infantino said, according to The Associated Press. “That’s why V.A.R. automatically helps the fight against simulation and diving in a very efficient way.”Referees for the Women’s World Cup began training with the video technology this winter at a series of seminars in Abu Dhabi and Doha. FIFA later said some had been introduced to the technology as early as 2016.Still, as this summer’s tournament in France approached, questions lingered about whether there would be enough time to get all of the untrained officials up to speed and comfortable with the protocols. FIFA on Monday said their progress had been satisfactory.“Based on the thorough work carried out over the past few months, FIFA is happy with the steps taken and the excellent job done by FIFA’s refereeing team and the female referees involved,” Zvonimir Boban, the deputy secretary general of FIFA, said in a statement. “We are confident about proposing the use of V.A.R. in France to the FIFA Council, as we are very positive about its implementation.”V.A.R. technology is quickly becoming an indispensable, if still sometimes controversial, presence at the top men’s competitions in the world. Many leagues and competitions — from Major League Soccer in the United States to Germany’s Bundesliga and England’s F.A. Cup — already use the system. European soccer officials announced in December that they would introduce it for the knockout rounds of this year’s Champions League, the world’s richest club competition.In a recent interview with The New York Times, United States Coach Jill Ellis said she felt it was “hugely important” that the use of V.A.R. in the women’s game kept pace with its spread on the men’s side.“First and foremost, we’ve got to fight for what’s going to help the game,” she said. “You can just see the benefit of it. It’s proven.”Becky Sauerbrunn, a longtime defender for the United States team, and a member of its 2015 Women’s World Cup champions, said that while the V.A.R. issue was far from the most pressing gender equality issue in international soccer, it symbolized the many little ways that FIFA can make the women’s game feel like an afterthought.For her, its use was just a matter of common sense.“For me it’s, why not?” Sauerbrunn said. “Why not give it to the women if you give it to the men?”
DUBLIN — Former Football Association of Ireland (FAI) boss John Delaney offered on Monday to leave the governing body completely, the FAI said, amid criticism from fans, players and politicians over the association's corporate governance practices.Delaney, who was moved to a newly-created role of executive vice-president just 24 days ago after it was first reported he provided the FAI with a 100,000 euro ($113,010) loan in 2017, faced criticism, including from Ireland's prime minister, for refusing to answer questions about the funds in front of a parliamentary committee.The short-term loan, which the FAI said it needed to relieve cash-flow issues in 2017 and avoid breaking its 1.5 million euro overdraft limit, has been a major news story in Ireland and led to investigations into the association's finances and corporate governance, as well as calls for sweeping board changes.The FAI's state funding was suspended last week as the failure to disclose the deterioration in its finance at the time contravened grant approval rules."John Delaney has offered to voluntarily step aside from carrying out his role as Executive Vice-President with immediate effect pending the completion of an independent investigation by the association into issues of concern to the board," the FAI said in a statement.Two other long-standing members of the 11-person board -- Honorary Secretary Michael Cody and Honorary Treasurer Eddie Murray - also voluntarily resigned on Monday. Delaney did not answer questions from reporters as he left a meeting with the board on Monday.Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar said on Friday that he did not think anyone would be satisfied by Delaney's appearance at the committee, where, aside from reading an opening statement, he remained silent through most of the five-hour hearing.Delaney told the committee he offered the loan as the FAI potentially only had a few hours to resolve its cash-flow issues and that he recalled asking the association's then finance director if any disclosure obligations arose from it.Following the meeting, two of the FAI's main sponsors, sportswear manufacturer New Balance and mobile phone operator Three, called on the FAI to quickly implement recommendations from reports it has commissioned into its corporate governance.Groups representing supporters and players also demanded that Delaney, who is a member of European soccer body UEFA's executive committee, leave the association he took charge of in 2004.Lawmakers were told last week that only three members of the FAI's board were made aware of the loan in April 2017 and FAI chairman Donal Conway said the association would handle cash flow issues differently if they occurred again.The Sunday Times newspaper, which first reported details of the loan, reported on Sunday that Delaney spent almost 40,000 euros on his work credit card in the space of six months shortly before he had to personally bail out the association.Citing credit card statements, the newspaper said the charges included duty-free purchases, meals in Delaney's local pub and cash withdrawals of more than 6,000 euros.The FAI did not respond to questions from Reuters over whether the alleged use of the credit card contravened its rules and Delaney's solicitor did not respond when asked to comment on the report.
They arrived in the offseason at a combined cost of $140 million, with the intention of bringing a new dimension to Liverpool's midfield.Fabinho would be the pure, out-and-out holding midfielder the team had been missing for a few years. Naby Keita would be the energetic, goal-scoring, box-to-box runner in the mold of Steven Gerrard.It has taken eight months — and some initial skepticism — but they are finally proving their worth to a team that could yet end the season as the Premier League champions, not to mention Champions League winners.The goals from Liverpool's three-pronged strikeforce of Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino speak for themselves. The defense, marshalled by the dominant Virgil van Dijk, is deservedly getting plaudits for the being the meanest in the league.But Liverpool manager Juergen Klopp at last might have his ideal midfield to complete the team.Much to his initial frustration, Fabinho was eased slowly into English soccer by Klopp following a move from Monaco for 50 million euros ($58 million). The Brazil international has underlined his versatility by filling in at center back — and even right back — but is now a mainstay as the team's midfield anchorman, his long legs and reading of the game regularly breaking up opposition attacks.Keita has taken even longer to feel at home since joining from Leipzig for a reported 70 million euros (then $85 million). Some turns and flicks aside, the Guinea midfielder has produced largely forgettable performances in his first season for Liverpool as he struggled to get attuned to the pressing game required in Klopp's team.But he has started Liverpool's last three games and scored in two of them — his first goals for the club. Even though he didn't score in the 2-0 win over Chelsea on Sunday that kept Liverpool in first place by two points, Keita regularly popped up in or around the box to give Chelsea's defenders another player to think about apart from Mane, Salah and Firmino."It is not easy to move from Germany to change club, especially as the league is not the same," said Mane, who briefly played with Keita at Red Bull Salzburg in 2014. "It is part of the things you have to deal with and he is working hard every single day."The real Naby is coming still."Tellingly, the blossoming of Fabinho and Keita has given Jordan Henderson some license and freedom to get forward, and the captain is in arguably his best form this season. Henderson changed the game when coming on as a substitute in the 3-1 win over Southampton on April 5 and set up Mane's opening goal against Chelsea with a delicate cross after bursting into the box.Henderson recently revealed he went to Klopp's office to speak to the manager about playing further forward, having spent most of the season as the holding midfielder in front of the defense. Fabinho's emergence has enabled Klopp to make that switch and Henderson looks, for the moment anyway, to have ousted Georginio Wijnaldum from the lineup.It is a tough call on Wijnaldum, who has been one of the best players not just for Liverpool but in the Premier League.But these are the ebbs and flows of a long season and the Fabinho-Keita-Henderson triumvirate looks to be Liverpool's new-look midfield. Expect them to be first choice for the final games of the season as the team chases titles at home and in Europe.___
The Red Bulls rallied from a scoreless first half to rout the visiting San Jose Earthquakes, 4-1, on Saturday behind two goals from Alex Muyl.The Red Bulls, who had the top record in M.L.S. in 2018, improved to 1-0-1. San Jose, which had the worst record, is now 0-3-0.Yet the Earthquakes turned in an inspired effort and had a 1-0 lead at the end of the first half. But in the second, the Red Bulls drew even a little more than five minutes in, and the momentum shifted.Bradley Wright-Phillips drilled a shot that forced San Jose goalie Daniel Vega to the ground for a diving deflection. The ball went to the left, and to Daniel Royer.Royer sent it back across the goal to Muyl, who first-timed it into the net to tie the game at 1-1.In the 71st minute, the Red Bulls made it 2-1, again on the efforts of Royer and Muyl. Royer took the ball to the end line before cutting it back to the middle. The ball deflected off a San Jose defender, forcing it into the air. When it came down, Muyl was waiting, volleying it home for the lead.Wright-Phillips made it 3-1 with five minutes left in regular time, converting a pass from Sean Davis. Royer got the last goal, putting home a cross from Michael Murillo in the final minute of the game.San Jose scored in the fifth minute. Magnus Eriksson found Cristian Espinoza down the right side. Espinoza pushed it into the box and then beat goalie Luis Robles to his right.
This photo gallery highlights some of the top news images made by Associated Press photographers in Latin America and the Caribbean that were published in the past week.Rival political factions took to the streets across Venezuela in a struggle for control of the crisis-wracked nation recently hit by crippling blackouts, as Vice President Mike Pence urged the U.N. to recognize an opposition leader as Venezuela's president in place of Nicolás Maduro.In Paraguay, more than 20,000 people were evacuated after torrential rains caused extensive flooding. Heavy rains killed at least 10 people and also left a trail of destruction in Rio de Janeiro.Also this week in Brazil, soldiers mistook a man's car for the vehicle of criminals and it was hit by 80 gunshots, killing him and wounding his wife's stepfather, according to Rio authorities.Female Bolivian officers introduced a litter of Golden Retriever puppies to be trained as police dogs, during a skills presentation of the K-9 unit. A girl and her father fed the pigeons in Havana on the day Communist Party leader Raúl Castro warned that Cubans should brace for worsening shortages due to Trump administration policies.Argentina's Racing Club soccer team celebrated winning their ninth national league trophy. Queratoro and Cruz Azul players wore blue noses as they walked onto the field for a Mexico soccer league match, to bring awareness and support autism month in April. Brazil's Flamengo defeated Bolivia's San Jose 6-1 in Rio de Janeiro. Julian Quinonez of Colombia's Deportes Tolima kneeled down on the field after Brazil's Atletico Paranaense scored their winning point at a Copa Libertadores soccer match in Curitiba, Brazil. A runner wearing a dinosaur costume took part in a marathon in Santiago, Chile.In Uruguay's capital, people held up image the disappeared from the country's military dictatorship. And a ferry boat that collided with a bridge pillar caused part of a bridge to collapse in the Moju River in the Brazilian state of Para.Supporters of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange protested his arrest in Quito, after Ecuador's President Lenin Moreno allowed British authorities to forcibly remove Assange from Ecuador's small embassy in London.___Gallery edited by photo editor Leslie Mazoch in Mexico City. On Twitter @LeslieMazoch
They are sports that bring in little in the way of money or notoriety or attention compared with the behemoths, football and basketball.In college athletics, volleyball, water polo, sailing, tennis and soccer are relatively small-time affairs that don’t fill stadiums or drive billion-dollar media contracts, and that is why they are at the center of what was described as the broadest college admissions fraud the Justice Department has uncovered.Just like the high-profile sports like football and basketball, coaches in the so-called Olympic sports are generally allowed to reserve several slots each year for students who might not otherwise gain admission. These slots are often in addition to those reserved for the truly elite athletes who receive athletic scholarships or their equivalent at the most selective universities.The Justice Department investigation revealed how this alternative admission path can be exploited and corrupted, especially at the dozen elite universities that were a target.Unlike in football and basketball, there is little in the way of formal rankings or general knowledge about who might be good at what are seen as minor sports, so admissions officials usually have to take coaches at their word when they tell them that an applicant is worthy of a spot on a volleyball or soccer or sailing team, leaving them open to exploitation.That is more difficult to do in big sports. “In basketball and football, it’s out there in the open, compared to the less financially driven sports,” said Corey Evans, a basketball recruiting analyst at Rivals, the recruiting website.[Several college coaches were named in the federal indictment Tuesday. Read more about each of them.]In short order Tuesday, the sailing coach at Stanford was fired. The U.C.L.A. men’s soccer coach was placed on leave, as was the Wake Forest women’s volleyball coach, and the men’s tennis coach at the University of Texas. J.B. Bird, a university spokesman, said Texas was “cooperating fully with the investigation. Integrity in admissions is vital to the academic and ethical standards of our university.” The university stated it believed Coach Michael Center’s actions did not involve “any other university employees or officers.”The water polo coach at the University of Southern California, Jovan Vavic, who has won 16 national championships, was fired after he was arrested at his hotel room early Tuesday morning in Hawaii, where he had traveled with the top-ranked women’s team for a match.The practice of reserving spots for athletes in minor sports has grown in recent years, people involved with college sports say, as more colleges have committed to pursuing excellence in every activity, from the chemistry lab to the tennis courts. Also, as the population continues to grow, slots at the most selective colleges are more competitive than ever.Stanford University said that last year, 47,450 students applied for admission, and the university accepted just 2,040. The acceptance rate of 4.29 percent was the lowest in Stanford’s history. No wonder, according to the complaint, the prominent Massachusetts real estate developer John B. Wilson paid hundreds of thousands of dollars in 2018 to secure a spot for his daughter at Stanford.Federal prosecutors did not charge students or universities with wrongdoing.At the heart of the scheme was William Singer, who, between 2011 and 2018, collected $25 million from parents to bribe coaches, and encouraged them to go to great lengths to falsely present their children as the sort of top-flight athletes that coaches would want to recruit.According to the indictment, Singer fabricated athletic “profiles” of the students to submit with their applications, which contained teams the students had not played on and fake honors not won. One student sat on a rowing machine to pass herself off as a rower. Singer’s associates also photoshopped the faces of the applicants onto images of athletes found on the internet.Kathy DeBoer, the executive director of the American Volleyball Coaches Association, said “people in the volleyball community know who the elite athletes are, but there isn’t enough of a spectator base at most places.”
DUBLIN — The entire board of Irish soccer's governing body has decided to step down by July in the wake of a furore over an undisclosed 100,000 euro (£86,371) loan, Transport Minister Shane Ross said on Tuesday.The Football Association of Ireland (FAI) acknowledged last week it had broken state funding rules by failing to tell authorities about the short-term loan made by its former chief executive, John Delaney, in 2017.In a filing to Ireland's Companies Registration Office published on Tuesday, the FAI's auditors Deloitte also said the 98-year old association's accounts were not being properly kept, contravening two sections of Irish company law. "It is clearly time for a regime change," Ross said as he announced details of the planned mass resignation. The Association had set out the plans in a letter to the government, he added."Given the ever growing lack of public confidence in the FAI, this move is to be welcomed and is hopefully the first step on the road to rebuilding trust in this important national governing body," Ross told a parliamentary committee.Sport Ireland, the government's sport coordination body, suspended all state funding to the Association last week, saying the body had failed to tell it about the financial troubles the loan was meant to ease. The FAI said it needed the cash to relieve cash-flow issues and avoid breaking its 1.5 million euro overdraft limit. It said it paid back the loan two months later.ANGER AND CONCERNSport Ireland Chairman Kieran Mulvey told the committee that the terms of reference audit firm Mazars was preparing into an "extensive investigation" into FAI would also include board expenses and payments to third parties.The Sunday Times newspaper, which first reported details of the loan, reported on Sunday that Delaney spent almost 40,000 euros on his work credit card in the space of six months shortly before he had to personally bail out the association.Citing credit card statements, it said the charges included duty-free purchases, meals in Delaney's local pub and cash withdrawals of more than 6,000 euros. The FAI and Delaney's solicitor did not respond to questions from Reuters over whether the alleged use of the credit card contravened its rules. Prime Minister Leo Varadkar, who criticised Delaney for refusing to answer questions about the loan at a parliamentary committee last week, said on Tuesday the government shared the concern of taxpayers and anger of fans at how the FAI has been run and more investigations were needed.Delaney, who was moved to a newly-created role of executive vice-president after it was first reported last month that he provided the FAI with the loan, offered on Monday to leave the governing body pending investigation.Two other long-standing members of the 11-person board also resigned on Monday. As a result of Deloitte's filing, the Companies Registration Office is now required to inform Ireland's corporate watchdog of the FAI's failure to keep adequate accounting records. The watchdog has already asked the FAI to explain the 2017 loan.
FIFA President Gianni Infantino held talks in Kuwait on Sunday about the country staging 2022 World Cup matches as he pushes to enlarge the Qatar tournament from 32 to 48 teams.After meeting with the emir of Kuwait and soccer officials, Infantino flew to Doha to see Qatari leaders on Monday about the prospect of overcoming the logistical and political complexities of adding 16 more teams to the hosting, which requires at least one additional Gulf country being used.FIFA maintains it is working jointly with Qatar on the viability of a 48-team tournament, but the concept is mired in complexities stemming from the boycott of Doha by neighbors. A FIFA internal report concluded last month that the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia cannot join the hosting unless they restore economic and travel ties with Qatar that were severed two years ago.FIFA instead turned to Kuwait and Oman, who have remained neutral in the diplomatic dispute, as potential hosts. But Oman's foreign minister last week said his country does not have time to prepare to host World Cup games, leaving Kuwait as the only current viable option to cope with the Nov. 21 through Dec. 18 tournament swelling to 80 games.Infantino met with Kuwait's ruler, Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah, National Assembly Speaker Marzouq Al-Ghanim and the management of the Kuwait Football Association, FIFA said in a statement. The discussions were "about football in the country in general, but also about the FIFA World Cup 2022," the world governing body said.FIFA's feasibility study into expanding the World Cup determined that two stadiums in at least one additional country were required to cope with the demands of extra games. Kuwait City's Jaber Al-Ahmad International Stadium has 60,000 seats but Sabah Al-Salem Stadium only 26,000 and requires upgrades.Ahead of Infantino arriving in Doha, Qatari officials held their first World Cup board meeting of the year on Sunday chaired by the ruling emir, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani."The latest Qatar 2022 developments were reviewed, including infrastructure projects, stadiums and security plans for the tournament," said Qatar's Supreme Committee for Delivery and Legacy.But those plans are in flux amid Infantino's determination to enlarge the tournament with less than four years to go until kickoff. Qatar is still working on a 32-team tournament as it completes eight stadiums over just a 30-mile radius in the tiny nation with just 2.7 million people, most of them foreign workers.Infantino said last week that he now believes there is only a 50% chance that the 2022 World Cup will see a fast-tracking of the jump to 48 teams that is already agreed to happen in 2026 when the United States, Canada and Mexico are joint hosts.After coming under pressure from human rights groups since winning FIFA's hosting rights vote in 2010, Qatar was forced to improve worker rights and improve labor conditions. FIFA has told potential new co-hosts they have to provide human rights guarantees, which have yet to be specified publicly.Qatar has an exemption that allows foreigners to drink alcohol, but Kuwait has a complete ban which could be problematic for FIFA, which has Budweiser as a major sponsor.FIFA has already had to adapt to cope with taking its showpiece tournament to the Middle East for the first time.While Qatar won a vote in 2010 on the basis of staging a June-July World Cup, FIFA shifted the tournament from its usual slot because of the fierce summer heat.
LIVERPOOL, England — Mohamed Salah has been here before. The edge of the opposition box, down Liverpool’s right-hand side, a defender snapping at his heels. A little burst of speed creates a touch, a glimmer of space. The ball is at his left foot. He touches it just a few inches in front of him.Mohamed Salah has scored this goal before. He seemed to score this goal almost continually last season: opening his body out, wrapping his foot round the ball, generating enough whip to carry it high, across the goalkeeper, arcing into the far corner. It is the goal that won him last year’s Puskas Award. It is the goal that at one point seemed to become his signature.The mechanics of it are still there. Now, he sets the ball just the same as he used to. He shapes his body just the same as he used to. He is, it is safe to assume, aiming for the same corner as he used to. This time, though, it is not quite enough. The ball curls, but it fades too soon. It picks up height, but too little. Jordan Pickford, Everton’s goalkeeper, barely moves. The ball drifts, welcome, into his arms.Salah missed more glaring opportunities than that as Liverpool, just as it had last week, visited a team desperate to see it fail and left with a goalless draw. The cost was a little higher this time around: A single point against Manchester United last week took Liverpool to the top of the Premier League table. The same result against Everton on a rain-specked Sunday left it a point behind Manchester City.Salah was not the only player who might have diverted the course of the game — Joel Matip and Fabinho, in particular, spurned their chances to become folk heroes — but he did it most often. Twice, once in each half, he raced clear, his feet a blur as he bore down on goal. Twice, his touch was heavy. Twice, his timing was awry. Pickford saved one; the defender Michael Keane stopped the other.But though they were his best chances, it was the first of them, the one that curled straight into Pickford’s hands, that was most symbolic of Salah’s campaign so far. Everything is almost exactly the same as it used to be, as it was in his unstoppable season last year, only it isn’t, not quite.It was, of course, unavoidable that Salah would be accused of suffering from what is popularly known as second-season syndrome. That is the unfortunate thing about setting quite so high a bar last season: even the slightest drop-off, or even the slightest perception of a drop-off, can be interpreted as an anticlimax.Anything other than a repeat of the improbable feats of his first season at Liverpool — 32 goals in 36 Premier League games, 44 in 52 in all competitions — would certainly be enough to invite criticism that his run of form had been an illusion.So it has proved. Salah has scored 17 goals in the Premier League in his 28 games this season. Good, of course; respectable, obviously, more than a goal in every two games; still a smart inclusion in the fantasy team, clearly. Is it a total bettered only by Sergio Agüero, putting Salah ahead of Harry Kane and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and the rest of the billions of dollars of strikers in the Premier League? O.K. But still, not quite the same. Not really.Salah, indeed, is a strange kind of busted flush. He was, according to his manager, Jürgen Klopp, “unplayable” as recently as four days ago, when he twisted and curdled the blood of Adam Masina, Watford’s left back, during a 5-0 win at Anfield. He has been criticized for disappearing in high-pressure games — not always wrongly — but in the one truly do-or-die game of Liverpool’s season so far, in the Champions League against Napoli, Salah scored the only goal. He is still his club’s leading scorer. Even at Goodison Park, even in the stalemate, it was abundantly clear that he was Liverpool’s greatest threat.That is not to say, though, that the criticism is entirely misplaced. Just as Salah is not a write-off because he has not managed to maintain his furious goal-scoring rate, it is hard to deny that he is not quite the force of nature he was for much of last year.Perhaps, in the early months of the season, there were mitigating circumstances: the lingering effects of that shoulder injury sustained in the Champions League final, the one that threatened his involvement in the World Cup and that hampered his performances in Russia.And perhaps, even as the injury has healed, its effects are still felt. Klopp dismisses any notions that Salah has lost confidence, but the heavy touches when he was once so deft, the slight stumbles when he was once so sure: they are the surefire signs.Salah’s newfound profile means he has to deal with the closer attentions of opposing defenders. He has had to do so, at times, in the absence of much creative assistance from Liverpool’s midfield, and for much of the year in a new position, too. He has not been able to pick up the burden when he is not quite as fluid, not quite as free as he used to be.There is no shame in that, of course. The number of goals he has scored despite all of that warrants respect, rather than scorn. The worry — from Klopp’s perspective, and from Liverpool’s — is that, in a title race that will probably be decided by the very finest of margins, what they need more than ever is the Salah of last year, the one who scored that same goal again and again, the one whose every touch seemed to be golden. If Liverpool is to overhaul Manchester City, if it is to end its 29-year wait for an English championship, it needs the player it had last season, rather than the one who is almost the same, but somehow, infinitesimally, not quite.
MANCHESTER, England — Jürgen Klopp was walking along the edge of the Old Trafford field, on his way from the locker room to speak to the assembled news media, when Liverpool’s fans spotted him.They had been corralled inside the stadium for 20 minutes or so after the final whistle, until the Manchester police had determined it was safe for them to be accompanied out. They had entertained themselves by singing, for a while, but had gradually fallen quiet, as if trying to work out their emotional reaction to the 0-0 draw they had just seen.And then Klopp appeared. As they lingered in the aisles, ringed by stewards, they turned to salute him. “Liverpool, top of the league,” they sang. Klopp had spent most of the afternoon with a deep-set scowl on his face, barking instructions at his players, bristling and bubbling with dissatisfaction.As he got closer, though, as he worked out what they were singing, he put one hand on his heart — on the Liverpool crest on his top — and, with the other, offered a little wave. He beamed that broad, warm smile, the one that makes him look a little like a happy shark. It lingered even as he turned away, before he got serious again.Liverpool’s day was a little like that, somewhere between a scowl and a smile.A draw with Manchester United meant a return to the top of the Premier League table, ahead of Manchester City by a single point, with 11 games left to play.It meant Klopp’s players have now faced the most daunting fixture of their run-in: against England’s most in-form team — United remains unbeaten domestically since Ole Gunnar Solskjaer replaced José Mourinho — and a club fizzing with motivation to see Liverpool fail. That point represented an obstacle cleared.There was no great sense of relief, though, no untamed glee among the traveling fans. The point also represented an opportunity lost, against a United team frayed by injury. Anthony Martial sat in the stands, not fit enough to be involved; Nemanja Matic was ruled out after picking up an injury in training.By halftime, Solskjaer had been forced to use all three of his substitutes, too, with Ander Herrera, Juan Mata and Jesse Lingard — a substitute himself — all limping off. Marcus Rashford, clearly in discomfort for much of the game, was forced to swallow a couple of painkillers and carry on.United’s midfield, for more than an hour, consisted of Scott McTominay and Andreas Pereira, callow youth forced to bear the responsibilities of grizzled experience. Liverpool would rarely have faced a United team with such threadbare resources, with quite so many square pegs in round holes. It would rarely have found fate smiling so kindly at Old Trafford. That point stood as proof, too, of Liverpool’s failure to profit from United’s troubles.But then Liverpool’s season has been a little like that: elusive, fuzzy, difficult to discern and define, as noteworthy for what it is missing as what is present.The raw numbers, of course, are enormously impressive: just one defeat all year — at Manchester City, right at the start of January, still likely the most significant result of the campaign — and more points than it has ever had at this stage of the Premier League. More points, indeed, than all but a handful of teams have had at this stage of the season.Liverpool has the best defense in the country, comfortably ahead of Manchester City’s in goals surrendered; Virgil van Dijk would be a contender for the various player of the year awards, a rarity for a defender. Only City has scored more goals.The best gauge of how impressive Liverpool has been, though, is that with two-thirds of the season gone, it remains ahead of a City team so good that Pep Guardiola, its coach, has spent a good part of the last week batting off questions about whether it can win all four trophies — the mythical, unprecedented quadruple — this season. (It picked up the first on Sunday, beating Chelsea on penalties in the E.F.L. Cup final.) City is a team that picked up 100 points in winning the title last year, and has, at various points, been deemed to be even better this time around. All of that, and Liverpool is still on top.And yet Liverpool does not look like a team capable of all of that: not just here, against a weakened Manchester United, but for considerable swaths of the season, too. City has a swagger and a panache and an irresistibility; Liverpool, on all but a few occasions, has seemed to toil for every goal and every point and every win.
This photo gallery highlights some of the top news images made by Associated Press photographers in Latin America and the Caribbean that were published in the past week.A former president of Peru, Alan Garcia, killed himself as he was about to be arrested in a corruption case tied to the Brazilian construction company Odebrecht, while ex-Peruvian President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski was hospitalized as he faces a similar investigation.Roman Catholics participated in Holy Week observances across Latin America at the approach of Easter Sunday.On the Colombia-Venezuela border, Venezuelans crossed illegally into the neighboring nation near the Simon Bolivar International Bridge, where Venezuela's government is allowing only students, seniors and the sick to cross. People in Venezuela's capital saw the first delivery of humanitarian aid brought in by the International Red Cross.Young students from poor communities received instruction in the intricacies of classical ballet in Chorrillos, a poor neighborhood of Peru's capital.Police and demonstrators clashed near Ecuador's presidential palace during a protest against the policies of President Lenin Moreno's government. Panamanians prepared to hold general elections May 5.In Cuba, international artists showcased new works at the Havana Biennial, which is meant to foster art appreciation among the public.Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro stood at attention in the rain during a ceremony in Rio de Janeiro marking Army Day. In Sao Paulo, teams competed in the Red Bull Soapbox Race.In soccer, Victor Santos of Brazil's Flamengo celebrated after scoring in a Copa Libertadores match, while coach Miguel Faria of Mexico's Cruz Azul gestured his anguish at his team failing to score in a Mexican soccer league game.___Gallery edited by photographer Dieu Nalio Chery in Port-au-Prince, Haiti.Follow him on Twitter at @CheryHaiti
NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE, England — Bill Corcoran is in his usual spot, in the shadow of St. James’ Park, opposite Shearer’s bar, rattling his bucket, when a pack of a dozen Manchester United fans marches past.They are wearing black jackets, hoods raised to stave off the cold. Just as they reach Corcoran, they launch into a deeply unflattering, mildly profane chant about the man after whom the bar is named: Alan Shearer, favorite son of both Newcastle the city and Newcastle the team. A few home fans jeer in response. The heckling just makes the interlopers sing louder.Toward the tail of the group, one man spots Corcoran, and veers in his direction. He pulls his wallet from his pocket, and leafs through a fistful of green, orange and purple notes.“Who are you collecting for, mate?” he asks. His accent is broad Mancunian. “Newcastle fans’ food bank,” Corcoran replies, his vowels unmistakably North Eastern.The man pauses. He shuffles the bills, and chooses a purple £20. He slips it inside the bucket, and hurries after his group. He picks up the refrain effortlessly. He is back to taunting Shearer, and Newcastle, before Corcoran has even had a chance to thank him.Over the next hour or so, dozens of fans stop at the same spot. Some donate money. Some come bearing bags of groceries, filled to the brim with canned fruit and breakfast cereals and dried pasta, to be dropped off at the makeshift booth behind Corcoran.Today is not a special occasion: the same thing happens every time Newcastle plays at home. So acute is the hunger in Newcastle now, so intense is the demand, that Corcoran, and a handful of other volunteers, do this every two weeks.Everything they raise — and they have raised a lot, somewhere in the region of £200,000 ($258,000), they believe — is sent to the West End Food Bank, in one of Newcastle’s most deprived areas. It is the largest institution of its kind in Britain. “We can’t have people in this city starving,” Corcoran said. “It is a badge of shame.”That dire state of affairs is not, though, unique to Newcastle. The demand for food banks in Britain has soared in recent years: the Trussell Trust, which runs more than 400 such programs, said it distributed some 1.3 million food parcels from its centers in the fiscal year ending in March, an increase of 13 percent.The spike, the charity’s chief executive, Emma Revie, said last year, can be attributed to the fact that too many people do not have “enough money coming in to cover the rising cost of absolute essentials like food and housing.”Earlier this month, the government’s Environmental Audit Committee warned lawmakers that more than two million people in Britain could be considered “food insecure,” meaning they struggle to eat regularly and healthily. Philip Alston, the United Nations’ special rapporteur for extreme poverty and human rights, described the problem as a “social calamity” on a fact-finding mission to Britain last year.And so, across the country, the same thing has happened: soccer, and in particular its fans, has stepped into the breach. Newcastle’s is not the only food drive; Corcoran and his colleagues said they took their inspiration from a similar initiative that started in Liverpool in 2015. Celtic fans have been running one in Glasgow for years. In recent months, fans in Manchester, Sunderland and London — among others — have done the same.In front of stadiums filled with multimillionaire superstars,  fans have taken it upon themselves to help those who need it most.“I like to feel I am doing my bit to give something back,” said Sandra Farn, as she dropped off a donation at the booth behind Corcoran. She and her son, Alex, drive the two hours from Nottingham for every Newcastle home match. They stop at a supermarket first, and load up. That, now, is part of the ritual of going to a game.Jonathan Yaseen comes to Newcastle games with his 15-year-old son, Zain, but also, usually, only after stopping at a local store for rice, cookies and canned fish. “He has asked me before why we are having to do this,” Yaseen said. “It is hard to explain.” 
BERLIN — Bayern Munich's 5-0 thrashing of Borussia Dortmund in their top-of-the-table clash left the Bavarians one point clear with six games left and a huge psychological advantage.Here are five talking points from the Bundesliga weekend: VAR BITES BACK AT SCHALKESchalke 04 were given a video assistant referee (VAR) let-off which surprised even themselves but were not so lucky the second time as a stoppage-time penalty handed them a 2-1 home defeat by Eintracht Frankfurt.Eintracht forward Ante Rebic went down in the area in the first half and, although most observers felt it was a clear penalty, the referee decided otherwise after consulting the pitchside screen."VAR doesn't give Frankfurt a penalty. We're not sure why not," conceded Schalke's Twitter feed.But there was a different outcome in stoppage time when Daniel Caligiuri was judged to have handled in the box and Luca Jovic converted to give Eintracht a 2-1 win."Caligiuri was pushed, then the ball bounced off his shoulder and against his hand," said Schalke coach Huub Stevens.The defeat left Schalke in 14th, five points clear of VfB Stuttgart who are in the relegation playoff spot. Eintracht, unbeaten since the winter break, are fourth and on course to qualify for the Champions League next season.JOVIC STEPS UP IN HALLER'S ABSENCEEintracht's regular penalty taker Sebastien Haller was missing through injury but, despite never having taken a penalty in the Bundesliga before, 21-year-old Jovic had no hesitation in stepping up to accept the responsibilityThe Serb coolly converted for his 17th league goal of the season and made a small slice of history in the process -- officially timed as being scored in the 99th minute, it was the latest-ever penalty in Bundesliga history.BAYERN COACH SINGLES OUT DORTMUND WEAKNESSSoccer coaches rarely single out individual weakness in the opposition but Bayern Munich's Nico Kovac broke with convention and pointed the finger at Borussia Dortmund's Dan-Axel Zagadou after their 5-0 win.Zagadou set up the second goal when his back pass fell to Roberto Lewandowski -- something Kovac said he saw coming.
BANGKOK — Two Australian cave divers who were instrumental in the rescue last year of 12 Thai boys and their soccer coach from a flooded cave received on Friday a royal honor from King Maha Vajiralongkorn in a ceremony in Bangkok.The “Wild Boars” soccer team, aged between 11 and 16, and their 25-year-old coach became trapped on June 23 while exploring the cave complex in the northern province of Chiang Rai when a rainy season downpour flooded the tunnels.A 17-day effort to rescue them gripped the world with experts from various countries volunteering to help.Richard Harris and Craig Challen were members of the main rescue team, made up of 13 foreign divers and five Thai navy divers, that brought the boys and their coach out to safety.They received the Most Admirable Order of the Direkgunabhorn at Bangkok's Government House before meeting Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha in their first trip back to Thailand since the rescue.They will travel to Chiang Rai and return to the Tham Luang cave on Monday to meet the boys and their coach."That's really exciting for us to go and see them and make sure they're well and see how they're doing after the rescue," Harris said.Harris, a physician specializing in anesthesia, was responsible for sedating the boys before they were brought out one-by-one on a rescue stretcher through flooded tunnels.The pair were in January named Australians of the Year, one of Australia's highest honors.King Vajiralongkorn has conferred various honors on 187 people in connection with the rescue, 113 of them foreigners including Tesla Inc Chief Executive Elon Musk, who were involved in the effort, according to the Royal Gazette in March.A former Thai navy diver died during the rescue.  (Reporting by Panu Wongcha-um and Panarat Thepgumpanat; Editing by Robert Birsel)
SAO PAULO — Brazilian soccer great Pele has successfully undergone surgery for the removal of a kidney stone in a Sao Paulo hospital.The Albert Einstein Hospital said on its website Saturday that Pele's surgery went well, but did not provide additional details.The 78-year-old was hospitalized in Brazil on April 2 after spending five days in a Paris hospital for a urinary infection.He had been in France to attend an event with forward Kylian Mbappe.Pele has been in the hospital frequently over the last few years for kidney and prostate problems.
The soccer star, whose new book is “Wolfpack,” began the sport because of a how-to guide from the library. “I scored 27 goals in my first three games. I guess I do owe it all to books.”What was the last truly great book you read?“Love Warrior,” by Glennon Doyle. It helped me get sober and love myself again. I’ve never read writing so honest and raw. I loved that book so much I married the author.What’s your favorite thing to read? And what do you avoid reading?Favorite thing to read: nonfiction. Avoid reading: anything with dragons or wizards.What books are on your nightstand?An advance copy of “Mary Magdalene Revealed: The First Apostle, Her Feminist Gospel & the Christianity We Haven’t Tried Yet,” by Meggan Watterson. It’s about the Gospel left out of the Bible — and buried in the Egyptian desert after a fourth-century command that all copies of it be destroyed — significant because it is written from a woman’s point of view, emphasizes that all humans are divine and insists that there is no need for middlemen between people and God. Since I’m still trying to detox from the homophobia, misogyny and mind control I internalized from growing up in the Catholic Church, I’m excited to dive into this one.Are there books that inspire you as an athlete? Any sportswriters you especially respect?When I read Andre Agassi’s “Open,” it was the first time I witnessed an athlete admitting to humanity and mistakes. After I retired, I was struggling hard with addiction. I wanted to write about it honestly but I was afraid that it might ruin my legacy as a sports hero or stain the reputation of the National Team. The first time I met my wife, I told her about my conflict and she said: I don’t know anything about the sports world, but here in the real world, we like real people. If you’re honest and you learn from your struggle — the world will love you more, not less. She and Agassi inspired me to write honestly in “Forward.” I’m glad I did, because it freed me to begin to live one life instead of two. Shamelessness freed me.What’s the most interesting thing you’ve learned from a book lately?“Good and Mad: The Revolutionary Power of Women’s Anger,” by Rebecca Traister, brought context to feelings I’ve had for a long time. During my soccer career, the difference between how the men’s team and women’s team were treated and paid was egregious. Even in years that the women brought in more revenue and bigger championships, the men were paid dramatically more. Because we are women, we were conditioned to just be grateful for the crumbs we were handed instead of demand what we deserved. When I read “Good and Mad,” it made me fully understand that neither my experience nor my anger was unique. I was just taking my place in a long legacy of women fed up with unequal treatment. It made me consider that my anger about injustice is nothing to be ashamed of, it’s something to be harnessed to make change — just as the brave women of the National Team are doing right now with their gender discrimination lawsuit.What’s the last book that made you laugh?“I’m Judging You: The Do-Better Manual,” by Luvvie Ajayi. I’ve known Luvvie for a few years now and it’s important that we understand how unbelievably funny she is. She has the ability to write words that many of us think, but never say.The last book that made you furious?“Educated,” by Tara Westover. What a beautifully written book. Westover is a genius. Maybe we all are until we get it indoctrinated out of us like Westover did. “Educated” made me think about how dangerous it is to tell a child who she is and what the world is instead of giving her space to discover both on her own.
Cleared by a disciplinary panel of performing a Nazi salute, a Premier League soccer player was still criticized for his lack of knowledge about fascism and Adolf Hitler.Crystal Palace goalkeeper Wayne Hennessey was described by a Football Association commission as having displayed "a very considerable — one might even say lamentable — degree of ignorance about anything to do with" the Nazi regime.The 32-year-old Hennessey, who is from Wales, had denied giving a Nazi salute because, the commission said, "he said he did not even know what one was.""Improbable as that may seem to those of us of an older generation, we do not reject that assertion as untrue," it said. "All we would say (at the risk of sounding patronizing) is that Mr. Hennessey would be well advised to familiarize himself with events which continue to have great significance to those who live in a free country."A photograph posted on Instagram by Hennessey's teammate at Palace, German midfielder Max Meyer, showed Hennessey with his right arm raised and his left hand under his nose. The photo was taken during a team dinner following Palace's win over Grimsby in the FA Cup in January.The FA charged Hennessey, saying the gesture brought the game into disrepute and was an aggravated breach of rules because it included a "reference to ethnic origin and/or race and/or religion and/or belief."Hennessey argued in a hearing that he was waving and shouting to the person taking the photo — an Italian waiter — and put his hand over his mouth to make the sound carry. An independent panel came down on the side of Hennessey.The panel said it was not challenged by witnesses in the hearing that "Mr. Hennessey does have rather a loud voice and tends to be impatient."Hennessey also provided screenshots and photographs of him on a soccer field, showing him with his right or left arm "raised at a similar angle (presumably to attract the attention of the defense in front of him)," the panel said."That someone later misinterpreted the gesture," it said, "may illustrate the perils of social media and the need for people to be careful to avoid such a situation. It has certainly also revealed a disappointing ignorance on the part of Mr. Hennessey with important parts of our culture and history."But that does not amount to proof that he has committed what would otherwise be a serious breach of (the rules)."______
BANGKOK — Two Australian doctors were given royal honors in Thailand on Friday for helping rescue a boys soccer team from a flooded cave and said they are looking forward to a reunion with the youngsters they helped save.Richard Harris and Craig Challen were given the award at a ceremony presided over by Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha. Four Australian officials involved with the rescue effort were also honored.Both highly skilled divers, the doctors played key roles in rescuing members of the Wild Boars soccer team and their coach from the cave complex in Chiang Rai province last July.They said before the award ceremony they were looking forward to going to the northern province Monday to see how the boys are faring."That's really exciting for us to go and see them and make sure they're well and see how they're doing after the rescue," Harris said. "Hopefully we will find them in good shape."A mixed team of Thais and expert divers from a number of countries combined in the dramatic search and rescue mission carried out after the team went missing when heavy rain flooded the Tham Luang cave complex.The drama, which lasted 18 days, gripped the attention of the world.Harris and Challen, who in January were jointly named Australians of the Year, said that should it ever happen again, they were ready to reprise their operation." We have a little bit more experience now," Challen said. "We seem to be the world record holders in cave-diving rescues now."They also joked about one of the British rescue team members, Josh Bratchley, who this week had to be rescued himself from a cave in the United States, and said they had left humorous messages on his Facebook page."Well, it's been a matter of some hilarity with us really. I'm glad it wasn't us because that would have been very professionally embarrassing for us, I can say," Challen said. "We are looking forward to speaking to Josh and getting the true story."Their final message was one for all young people: Don't let what happened to the Wild Boars scare you off having fun."Those boys and the coach were extraordinarily unlucky to have been caught out in the cave," Harris said. "I hope that doesn't stop people enjoying adventures and kids really need to do those sorts of things."
MONTERREY, Mexico — The St. Louis Cardinals, Cincinnati Reds and all of Major League Baseball will have one big fan rooting for them when they come together this weekend at Estadio de Béisbol de Monterrey — Mexican President Andres Manuel López Obrador.López Obrador, who took the oath of office last December, is a devoted baseball fan and is trying hard to help the sport succeed in a country where soccer is still king.The Cardinals and Reds meet for games on Saturday and Sunday, and the Houston Astros and Los Angeles Angels will play another two-game series at the same ballpark in early May.But López Obrador wants baseball to be more than just a couple of big league sets every year."It's well known that baseball is my favorite sport, since I was a kid in my town there was nothing more than baseball," said the 65-year-old López Obrador, who has several videos on YouTube where he shows off a good swing. "I can still play, I can still hit above .300, I played center field when I was younger and had a good arm and covered a lot of ground."MLB began holding regular season games in Mexico in 1996 when the San Diego Padres and Mets played three times. The 1999 season opened with a matchup in Monterrey between the Padres and Colorado. Last May, the Padres and Los Angeles Dodgers played a three-game series at the stadium — Walker Buehler and the Dodgers bullpen combined for a no-hitter.All of those series were a success with sellouts in Monterrey.López Obrador put some action behind his passion and recently created Promobeis, a government office run by Édgar González, a former player who spent a couple of seasons as a Padres second baseman and was Mexico's manager at the World Baseball Classic.Among other things, Promobeis has a goal to have between 60 and 80 Mexican players in the majors. This season, only eight local players started the season on big league rosters, but González — brother of former All-Star Adrian González — believes that he can he can have success because there are over 160 Mexicans in the minors."I love the challenge, it's something that has never been done before and can be a success. I think it's easier to have more Mexican baseball players in the big leagues than players in the NFL. Besides, we believe that we can help to take kids away from the bad habits," González told The Associated Press."We believe that having more players in the majors will help us to grow the sport's popularity. Right now we have a little bit over 160 players in the minors, in the majors right now there are 10 because some of them are constantly been called up or sent down. It's a good number and I believe we can grow in the future and have more players signing with MLB clubs like the Puerto Ricans or the Dominicans," González said.To put the program in motion, González and Promobeis have a $17.5 million budget for 2019. The money will be invested in the opening of 10 baseball academies that are going to be administered by the government."It's going to be great if they support baseball like the president wants. You need to start early in the sport to be successful," said former big league slugger Vinny Castilla, considered one of the all-time great Mexican players. "Baseball is our president*s great passion and that's big news because for all of us that love the sport, he is going to support the sport as much as he can."The idea of having more Mexican players in the big leagues as a way to boost the sport's popularity in the country is not new. MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred has spoken about it on several occasions as a big factor for the country to be considered like a candidate for an expansion franchise in the future.Besides López Obrador's ideas, another door to the majors opened for the Mexicans last March. That's when MLB announced an agreement with the Liga Mexicana de Béisbol that allows all players who are under contract to an LMB team to be able to sign with any MLB club as long the player is at least 25 years old or has six or more years of professional baseball experience abroad.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has spent much of his time as Manchester United manager harking back to the club's trophy-laden past under Alex Ferguson.Now it's time to focus on the future — and he knows it.United's 4-0 aggregate loss to Barcelona in the Champions League quarterfinals highlighted just how far England's biggest club remains behind the best in Europe, six years after Ferguson's retirement."I've said all along this isn't going to change overnight," Solskjaer said, "and the next few years are going to be massive for us to get to the level where Barcelona and other teams are at the moment."The so-called "new-manager bounce" provided by Solskjaer's arrival in December as the replacement for Jose Mourinho masked the frailties that still existed in United's team. From 14 wins — and only one loss — in his first 17 matches in charge, when United arguably overperformed, Solskjaer has now presided over five losses in his last seven games.United is out of the Champions League and might not get back into the competition next season after dropping to sixth place in the Premier League.So, the questions are coming thick and fast: Was United hasty in making Solskjaer its permanent manager on the back of his successful three months as interim coach? How much does United need to spend in the offseason to build a squad capable for challenging for the big titles? Will Paul Pogba still be at United next season? Does United need a director of football?"We've got a rebuilding job," Solskjaer said after the 3-0 loss to Barcelona in the second leg on Tuesday.SOLSKJAERWith his permanent smile and positive outlook, the Norwegian coach has been a breath of fresh air at United following the gloomy final months of the Mourinho era. His regular and sentimental references to the glory days under Ferguson — in which he played a major part — endeared him even more to fans.At first, he was a caretaker manager but the clamor to hire him on a permanent basis became so intense that United's American ownership relented and gave him a three-year deal on March 28. His results up to that point possibly merited it, but United could have waited until the end of the season.United is currently on its worst run of results this season and some of Solskjaer's selections are being scrutinized — for example, left back Luke Shaw playing as a left-sided center back in the first leg against Barcelona and center back Victor Lindelof as a right back in the second leg. Many fans wonder why Ashley Young is still being picked.Solskjaer's favored counterattacking approach worked perfectly in United's hot streak, but the team often had little control. Can he change his style of play to adapt to all types of games?OFFSEASON TARGETSThe squad clearly needs a shake-up, especially in defense where the much-criticized Young continues to play as an out-of-position full back. Center backs Chris Smalling and Phil Jones are still there, too, eight years after being members of the United team that lost 2-1 to Basel to get eliminated from the group stage of the Champions League.
Lauren Sara Wiley and Nathan Mark Terrazas were married April 13 at the South Congress Hotel in Austin, Tex. Rabbi Monty Eliasov officiated, with the Rev. Rob Hall, an auxiliary bishop of the Old Catholic Diocese of Uniformed Services, taking part.Mrs. Terrazas, 27, is a speech language pathologist at a private practice in Austin. She is also a Pilates instructor at Solidcore in Austin. She graduated from Northwestern, from which she also received a master’s degree in speech, language and learning.She is the daughter of Audrey B. Wiley and Richard B. Wiley of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. The bride’s father, who is retired, worked in the sales division at BMW in Mount Kisco, N.Y. Her mother, who works in Armonk, N.Y., is an administrator in the winter office of both Tripp Lake Camp, an all-girls sleep-away camp in Poland, Me., and Camp Takajo, an all-boys sleep-away camp in Naples, Me.Mr. Terrazas, 31, is a product specialist at ePayPolicy, a payment processor to the insurance industry in Austin. He graduated from DePaul University. He is the son of Elisa Terrazas and Mark Terrazas of Lansing, Ill. The groom’s mother is a cosmetologist in private practice in Munster, Ind. His father is a chief building engineer for SodexoMagic, an engineering firm in Chicago.The couple met in summer 2012 while they were working at Camp Takajo. She was a tennis counselor and he a soccer counselor. They bonded over their love of Chicago and the groom’s Australian shepherd, Roo.
MONROVIA, Liberia — A spokesman says Liberia's president is working from home after two snakes were found in the building that contains his office.Deputy press secretary Smith Toby tells The Associated Press that former international soccer star and President George Weah was told to stay away until the Foreign Affairs building can be fumigated. He is expected back in the office on Monday.The black snakes were seen this week briefly emerging from a hole in a wall of the building's reception area. Liberia is home to poisonous snakes and officials are not taking chances.The deputy press secretary says the fumigation has begun to take care of "crawling and creeping things."Weah, who was FIFA's 1995 player of the year, assumed the presidency in January 2018.
The best player in baseball is closing in on the richest contract in the history of North American sports. Mike Trout, the center fielder for the Los Angeles Angels, is finalizing a contract extension that will be worth about $430 million and keep him with the team through 2030, according to two people who were briefed on the deal but were not authorized to comment publicly.However the deal is calculated — either an additional $360 million over 10 years or the Angels’ total commitment of about $430 million for the next 12 years — Trout has eclipsed the previous record for guaranteed money: the 13-year, $330 million deal Bryce Harper signed this month with the Philadelphia Phillies.The extension, which was first reported by ESPN, would establish Trout as the highest-paid baseball player on an annual basis, topping the $34.4 million Zack Greinke is earning from the Arizona Diamondbacks on a six-year, $206.5 million contract signed in December 2015.[From 2017: Mike Trout, Baseball’s Best Without the Brand]While it is an enormous amount of money, even this record-breaking contract doesn’t necessarily bring Trout into the highest tier of overall income for professional athletes.While comparing contracts across sports and continents is an inherently difficult undertaking because of varied contractual structures, tax burdens, bonuses and ancillary benefits, it is clear that even with the monster deal Trout would fall well short of becoming the world’s highest paid athlete annually.The soccer superstar Lionel Messi, for example, is expected to earn more than 106 million euros (about $120 million) per year from Barcelona through 2021, an amount that could rise to 120 million euros if certain incentives are met. The boxer Canelo Álvarez will earn at least $73 million annually from a five-year deal with the streaming service DAZN.Trout, 27, also won’t have the highest annual salary in North American team sports. In the N.B.A., Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors is making $37.5 million this season, and the Houston Rockets’ James Harden will earn $42.3 million annually once his four-year, $169.3 million contract extension kicks in.The highest-paid N.F.L. player, Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers, earns a bit less than Trout is expected to: an average of $33.5 million from a four-year, $134 million contract (though only $98.7 million of that is guaranteed). Unlike Major League Baseball, the N.F.L. and N.B.A. have salary caps.Compared with superstars in other sports, Trout has a limited ability to earn money outside the game. Baseball players typically aren’t as well-known nationally or internationally as their counterparts in other major sports, and Trout’s lack of marketability has been lamented by M.L.B. Commissioner Rob Manfred.Trout does have a number of endorsement deals with companies including Rawlings and Nike, and in 2014 he became of the first baseball player since Ken Griffey Jr. to get a Nike signature cleat. But baseball players’ ability to move merchandise pales in comparison to that of a basketball player or a soccer player, and endorsement contracts reflect that.Trout earns an estimated $2.5 million from endorsements annually, according to Forbes. Kevin Durant’s endorsement deal with Nike alone is worth up to $300 million over 10 years, while Harden will earn $200 million over 13 years from Adidas. LeBron James of the N.B.A. and Cristiano Ronaldo, the Portuguese soccer star for Juventus, have lifetime deals with Nike that are rumored to be worth $1 billion each.While a handful of athletes earn more from their contracts annually than Trout, those individuals almost assuredly will not be doing so in 2030, the final year of Trout’s deal. N.B.A. contracts last a maximum of five years, and with a few exceptions, soccer contracts are rarely longer than that, either. Boxers typically earn their money fight to fight, while golf and tennis players simply claim a share of tournament prize money.But in 2030, no matter how Trout’s baseball career progresses, he will earn at least $36 million — a priceless long-term assurance.He has earned the payout by putting together seven astounding seasons to begin his career; the most similar players, production-wise, at his age, according to Baseball Reference, have been the Hall of Famers Frank Robinson, Ken Griffey Jr. and Mickey Mantle. Trout has won two American League Most Valuable Player Awards and been the runner-up four times. His career batting average is .307 and he is the majors’ active leader in on-base plus slugging percentage, at .990.
Here's your look at highlights from the weekly AP photo report, a gallery featuring a mix of front-page photography, the odd image you might have missed and lasting moments our editors think you should see.This week's gallery includes boys playing soccer in the historic Kasbah of Algiers, Algeria; a horse-drawn carriage traveling next to a highway in Frankfurt, Germany; and waves crashing against a line of trees in Minnesota.___This gallery contains photos from the week of April 6-12, 2019.See the latest AP photo galleries: https://apimagesblog.com___Follow AP photographers on Twitter: http://twitter.com/AP/lists/ap-photographersVisit AP Images online: http://www.apimages.com http://www.apimages.com/___This gallery was produced by Patrick Sison in New York.
LONDON — The long-running British TV soap "Coronation Street" is welcoming its first black family in its 59-year history.The soap opera is set to introduce the Baileys, a family with two sons. It will explore themes of racism and homophobia in sport, with a story line featuring one of the sons, a soccer player, coming out as gay.The show has charted the goings-on in the fictional northern England community of Weatherfield since 1960. It has cast individual black characters but not brought in a black family together before.Producer Iain MacLeod said Saturday he didn't really know why it has taken so long, but it "did feel sort of overdue we did this and represented modern Manchester a bit more accurately."
TOKYO — For fans, athletes, and volunteers, next year's Tokyo Olympics could become known as the get-up-early games.Hoping to beat the summer heat in the Japanese capital, organizers said Tuesday they will start the men's 50-kilometer race walk final at 5:30 a.m. The men's and women's marathon finals go at 6 a.m.Marathon swimming will kick off at 7 a.m., and the men's and women's triathlon start at 7:30 a.m.Even women's softball has some games scheduled for 9 a.m. No men's baseball games will start before noon."9 a.m. is early, that's my impression," said Reika Utsugi, the head coach of Japan's women softball team, speaking through an interpreter. "But we will have one year for the preparation. Softball cannot decide the times."Softball and baseball were dropped after the 2008 Olympics, and are appearing because of the sports' popularity in Japan.The 1964 Tokyo Olympics were held in the fall and did not face heat problems. But modern Olympics can no longer be held in that timeframe, needing to avoid Europe's crowded soccer schedule, and year-round scheduling of the big four sports in the United States — football, baseball, basketball and hockey.Koji Murofushi, the sports director of the Tokyo Games and a Japanese Olympic gold medalist, said organizers had consulted about the schedule with the International Olympic Committee, the governing bodies of the sports, and athletes and medical experts. He said athletes can adapt."When we look at the Olympic games as a whole, of course we need to consider the global audience and adjust and control the overall schedule," Murofushi said, speaking through an interpreter. "Athletes, when they know the schedule in advance, can make an adjustment to prepare."As previously announced, the swimming finals will begin at 10:30 a.m. The swim schedule has nothing to do with the heat and will follow the pattern of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. The morning schedule in Asia allows North American television to telecast the finals live in prime time in the evening.American broadcaster NBC in 2011 agreed to pay the IOC $4.38 billion for TV rights through the 2020 Games. It later agreed to an extension through the 2032 Olympics, paying the IOC an added $7.75 billion.Organizers say the first gold medal event will be the women's 10-meter air rifle, which will take place on July 25 — the day after the opening ceremony.Organizers have labeled Aug. 8 — the day before the closing ceremony — as "Super Saturday" with about 30 finals, the most of any single day. Finals will include men's basketball, men's soccer and men's baseball.The most difficult event to schedule might be surfing, which was added to the Tokyo Olympics. Organizers have blocked out eight days for the event, hoping surf's up for at least four of them. It's a four-day event."The competition schedule is subjected to change depending on the wave conditions," organizers said.
(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. 
(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. 
MANCHESTER, England — The first ball floated backward, spinning and arcing toward the net. For a second, it hung in the air, a foot or so above the white goal line. Manchester City, Liverpool, the Etihad Stadium crowd all held their breath.And then John Stones reached it, and sent it as far away from himself, from danger, as he could. Anthony Taylor, the referee, checked his watch for the goal-line technology reading that would determine if the entire ball had crossed the line before Stones reached it. He waited. Everyone waited.He shook his head. The slightest sliver of orange and purple leather had remained above the line — less than an inch. City could breathe again.The second ball — an hour or so later — traveled quicker, caught sweet by Leroy Sané’s left foot. It struck the sole of Trent Alexander-Arnold’s boot and flew past Alisson Becker’s outstretched hand. Its trajectory shifted, just enough. It struck the bottom of the far post, and skittered along the same white line. Another intake of breath. It clipped the foot of the near post. This time, Taylor did not need to look at his wrist.Fine lines, slender margins. Liverpool did not score, Manchester City did. Liverpool did not win, Manchester City did. It does not change everything: Liverpool remains at the top of the Premier League, four points clear of the reigning champion. But when the time comes to look back on this season, this result may have changed enough.That is how it felt when Taylor blew his whistle, confirming that Sané’s goal had been enough to seal a 2-1 victory for Pep Guardiola’s team, enough to end Liverpool’s 19-game unbeaten run, enough to evaporate the faint aura of invincibility that had started to attach itself to Jürgen Klopp’s team.Manchester City’s players sank to their knees in ecstasy. The stands bounced and heaved. Guardiola — just moments removed from berating Martin Atkinson, the fourth official, for some perceived error by Taylor — embraced his coaching staff, and hugged his players.[More from Rory Smith: David Silva, Manchester City’s Key Piece, Is Now More Valuable Than Ever]Later, Guardiola would be asked if his captain, Vincent Kompany, should have been sent off, instead of receiving just a yellow card, for a first-half foul on Mohamed Salah: another fine line, another slender margin. Guardiola did not want to contemplate such a question “on a night like this,” he said.This was the moment, manager and players and fans had decided, on which the whole season would turn, when the slightest differences could have seismic consequences. Guardiola had made clear, in the days beforehand, that this was a game Manchester City could not afford to lose.It would, he believed, be “impossible” to catch up to a team as good as Liverpool — maybe the best in the world, he called Klopp’s side, trying to kill his foe with kindness — if it won and secured a 10-point lead with 17 games to play.The fans clearly felt the same way. As City cantered to the championship last season, the Etihad was a contented, mellow sort of place — quietly confident in its own obvious superiority. There was little tension, no drama. Against Liverpool, under pressure, it was raucous and angry, possessed of the same manic energy that infused Guardiola’s players.By the end, that energy had transformed into jubilation. Trailing Liverpool by four points, as City does now, is hardly ideal; a month ago, most people connected to City would have been hard-pressed to even imagine such a situation. But when the damage could have been so much worse, it felt like a blessing. City can celebrate all that it has gained; it need not worry about the ground it had lost.Four points is a couple of bad afternoons over the course of five long months. Four points is a lapse of focus in the league because of the demands of the Champions League. Four points is an unfortunate injury, or a needless sending-off. It is the bounce of a ball. It is a fine line, a slender margin.It is particularly precarious now, in what the Premier League has become: a two-tier competition in which, every week, six elite teams demonstrate their superiority over what are in theory their peers, but their pawns in practice. The pace that Liverpool, Manchester City and Tottenham Hotspur — in third, just six points off the lead — have set this year has been historic.
In what the Justice Department called its largest ever college admissions prosecution, federal authorities charged 50 people on Tuesday with taking part in a nationwide scheme to game the admissions process at highly competitive schools like Yale and the University of Southern California. [The college admissions scandal has raised a lot of questions. We’ve answered them here.]Those charged include wealthy and powerful parents accused of paying millions of dollars in bribes, exam administrators and athletic coaches accused of manufacturing students’ achievements, and private admissions counselors accused of coordinating it all. At the center of the scandal are the Edge College & Career Network, also known as the Key, and a nonprofit organization, the Key Worldwide Foundation, that prosecutors say effectively were a single enterprise. They are accused of helping students cheat on standardized tests, and paying bribes to athletic coaches who could get the students into college using fake athletic credentials. [Read more on the Justice Department’s largest ever college admissions prosecution.][Read more about how the F.B.I. says parents cheated to get their children into elite colleges.]Federal prosecutors accused dozens of parents of paying millions of dollars in bribes to help their children secure spots at prestigious American universities. Athletic coaches from top colleges were also implicated and accused of accepting millions of dollars to help students gain admission.Teachers, test administrators and private instructors are named as co-conspirators in the federal charging documents. 
MANCHESTER, England — Sergi Roberto might have noticed Lionel Messi’s battle scars first: the slightly swollen nose, or the faint trace of a bruise, flowering around his left eye. Or he might have realized that the rest of the Argentine’s features were of far greater concern: Messi’s brow was furrowed. His face was set into a scowl. He was staring straight at his teammate. Roberto had let him down.His offense was one scuffed pass, a deflating climax to a wonderful, flowing move down Barcelona’s right flank. A better ball, a little more composure, and Messi would have had a glorious chance to double his team’s 1-0 lead — not necessarily enough to settle this Champions League quarterfinal, to doom Manchester United, but a significant tilting of the balance ahead of next week’s second leg in Barcelona at the Camp Nou.It was, in Roberto’s defense, an aberration. Until that point, he had offered poise and drive since coming on as a substitute for Arthur, the Brazilian midfielder; he had improved Barcelona considerably.By that stage, though, Messi was in no mood to consider mitigating circumstances. His frustration had been building for an hour or so — with himself, with his teammates, with what he very clearly felt was an overly physical approach from United’s defenders and an excessively lenient one from Gianluca Rocchi, the Italian referee. Through his war wounds, Messi subjected Roberto to his sternest glare.Whenever Barcelona sweeps into town, it carries with it certain expectations. Barcelona is style and it is beauty. It is treasuring the ball, cherishing possession, every touch perfect and every pass precise. It is attacking intent and artistic sensibilities. Home crowds may not come to enjoy it — they may, in fact, come specifically to disrupt it — but they expect at least to admire it, teeth gritted and breath taken.Much the same, of course, goes for watching Messi. He had not graced Old Trafford for more than a decade; United had not encountered him at all since 2011, when he orchestrated the defeat of Alex Ferguson’s team at Wembley in a second Champions League final.Old Trafford was ready for him on this day, though. When the teams were read out before kickoff, there were deafening, vituperative jeers for both Philippe Coutinho and Luis Suárez: both, in Mancunian eyes, can be considered forever tainted by their association with Liverpool. Messi’s name attracted a little opprobrium, too: not quite the howling chorus reserved for his teammates, but not too far-off. In his case, it felt a little like a compliment, as though stopping him would require not just the 11 individuals on the field, but the 76,000 or so in the stands, too.In some ways, then, Manchester United’s fans would leave the stadium, a couple of hours later, feeling as though they had done their job. Messi did create the game’s only goal — of course he did — with a darting run, a heavy touch, and an improvised cross for Suárez to head home (with the help of a final touch from Luke Shaw), but for long stretches he seemed subdued.He drifted out wide in search of space and success, but found neither. He dropped deep, to try to light some fire in Barcelona’s belly, but could muster only embers. There were moments, of course — such is the quality of player Messi has around him that there will always be moments — but they were fleeting: the goal itself, the product of two minutes of possession, with every visiting player touching the ball; chances in the first half for Coutinho and in the second, after another spell of endless possession, of what seemed a thousand passes, for Suárez.By the time Roberto had made his poor choice on the edge of Manchester United’s box, Messi was feeling frayed. He had not lived up to his own expectations, and neither had his team, though it is hard to separate which one of those is cause and which is consequence. Either way, Roberto’s errant delivery was the final straw. Messi glowered and glared.And yet, while this victory felt like it came despite — rather than because of — Barcelona’s performance, it was, nevertheless, a victory, and in some lights rather an impressive one.Barcelona did not play at all well for long stretches, and yet emerged with a lead, an away goal, and a sense that United had been kept at arm’s length with comparative ease. The home team, in fact, did not have a single shot on target; there were flurries of pressure, brief spells when Barcelona seemed to be teetering, only to be carried to safety by the nous and composure of Gerard Piqué, Clément Lenglet and Sergio Busquets.It was not what we expect of Barcelona — and judging from Messi’s reaction, it is not necessarily what Barcelona expects of itself — but it showcased many of the traits that the team that goes on to win this competition tends to possess: maturity, cunning, patience, control, and, most decisive of all, an ability to click, even if only briefly, and find a gear that an opponent cannot match.It is not a comparison that would be especially welcome in Catalonia, but in that sense it was a display straight out of the recent playbook of Barcelona’s archrival, Real Madrid: a sort of base level of organization, laced with enough individual talent to make a difference; a superiority that is not immediately visible, but that makes itself plain by the end.Perhaps that is no bad thing. For the last 10 years, Barcelona has always been the most stylish, the most gifted, the most compelling team in the Champions League. It is the most immediately recognizable, the one that inspires the most fear, the one that comes with the greatest expectations.
Good morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Although the California connections run deep throughout the sprawling college admissions scandal, the complex federal case is now playing out in Boston. My colleague, Kate Taylor, has been covering the court proceedings. Here, she reports on the latest: In a coup for prosecutors and possible bad news for other defendants in the sweeping college admissions fraud investigation, one of the parents charged in the case, Davina Isackson of Hillsborough, Calif., has agreed to plead guilty and to cooperate with the government, according to a person with knowledge of the case.Two other parents have said so far that they intend to plead guilty, and more will probably follow in the coming days. But Ms. Isackson’s agreement to cooperate is significant. Ms. Isackson and her husband, Bruce, a real estate developer, were accused of conspiring with William Singer, the college consultant at the center of the case, to bribe athletics officials in order to secure their daughters’ admission to U.C.L.A. and U.S.C. as athletic recruits.Prosecutors also accused them of paying Mr. Singer so that a proctor could correct their younger daughter’s answers on her ACT exam. The prosecutors have said that the Isacksons paid Mr. Singer a total of $600,000.[Catch up on all of The Times’s coverage here.]Mr. Singer has pleaded guilty to racketeering and other charges.The agreement to cooperate means that Ms. Isackson will share what she knows about the roles that officials at U.C.L.A. and U.S.C. played in the scheme and, if their cases go to trial, could testify against them. It also puts pressure on other parents charged in the recruitment scheme; if Ms. Isackson testifies that she believes her actions were wrong, it makes it harder for others to say that they thought that they were simply making innocent donations.One unusual aspect of the Isacksons’ case is that, according to the charging documents, their older daughter, Lauren, who was admitted to U.C.L.A. as a soccer recruit despite not being a top player, was required to participate on the team as a student-athlete for a year. She is listed on the 2017 roster as a midfielder. Most students involved in the case did not actually play on the teams they had been recruited for.Prosecutors say that, after Lauren Isackson was provisionally admitted to U.C.L.A., Mr. Singer directed $100,000 to a sports marketing company controlled by Jorge Salcedo, the former head men’s soccer coach at U.C.L.A. The government has charged Mr. Salcedo with conspiracy to commit racketeering, and he has pleaded not guilty.Davina Isackson could shed light on whether the coaches of the women’s soccer team were also in on the scheme. Amanda Cromwell, the head coach of women’s soccer at U.C.L.A. since 2013, did not respond to messages.Both Davina and Bruce Isackson will plead guilty to conspiracy to commit mail fraud and honest services mail fraud, according to the person with knowledge of the case. Mr. Isackson will also plead guilty to money laundering conspiracy and conspiracy to defraud the United States.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)
FRIDAY PUZZLE — I can’t help myself; I have one more column to write before I actually leave for the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament. After this, I’m really off, I swear.Brendan Emmett Quigley is back with an incredibly crunchy puzzle that may seem difficult to some. Mr. Quigley is known, in traditional venues and on his own website, for his unusual and amazingly fresh fill (he is known for debuting the cryptic phrase WHY YOU LITTLE nearly 20 years ago, clued as “Angry parent’s yell”). This puzzle is no different. We’ve got entries for everyone in this one, including a newly designated ailment called WIIITIS, which may have thrown a lot of solvers off with the three consecutive I’s. Before you say anything, it is a real thing that has even been written up in an actual medical journal. As a fan of the movie “Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse,” which plays with the MULTIVERSE theory by having several versions of the web-slinger converge from different dimensions, I also enjoyed the debut at 26A. — I also liked the throwback to the 1960s Italian film director CARLO PONTI.There’s a lot more to enjoy and learn about in Mr. Quigley’s puzzle, but I’m going to let you dig for treasure. It’s more fun that way. Then come back here and let’s go over a selection of the trickier clues. 20A: Well, sure. If someone came into my house and messed up the flooring, I would most likely shout, “MISLAYER!” all while pointing a “J’accuse!” finger at him.31A: A tough one for those who don’t speak Latin or didn’t go to law school, but it is Friday, so it’s time once again to familiarize ourselves with a new clue. I say “new clue” because the word ESSE has been in The New York Times Crossword 847 times, including this puzzle. So it’s not coming out of nowhere, but the clue seems new if you look at XWordInfo.com. As the clue says, “Auctor ESSE” means to “authorize, in legalese.”34A: A question for those who are in construction: Isn’t an H-BAR really an I-bar turned sideways? You can be honest with me. I won’t tell anyone.42A: Most people would recognize the Easter Island statues, but did you know they are really called MOAI?47A: Congratulations to the Italian soccer team JUVENTUS for making its New York Times Crossword debut.4D: We haven’t seen the word SKALDS in a while. They were ancient Norse bards or poets who recited poems of valor about their heroes. Sounds like a good gig.40D: I thought CARDI B would be a debut, but she’s been in the Crossword once before, in October 2018. Congratulations on that Grammy, Ms. B.Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. Your thoughts?
BOSTON — At 5 on a windy winter morning, in a cold, harshly lit warehouse in Boston’s seaport district, Baracat Paiva stared down at the 200-pound bigeye tuna before him and reached for his knives. Mr. Paiva, as tall and imposing as the dead fish before him, dipped his cloth-gloved hand in warm water, to keep his fingers from numbing. He deftly sharpened an eight-inch knife against a water stone before plunging it into the silver-scaled fish and sawing off the collar, using another, bigger knife to lop off the bone. A few bits of tuna sprayed off his knife and stuck to his hooded sweatshirt and flat-brimmed baseball cap, but he didn’t seem to notice.Then, in a single motion, he slid the knife down the length of the fish on one side, then made another slice on the other. After a few more strokes, he carefully peeled away the rib cage and splayed open the fish, which split into four neat sections. He picked up one of the fillets, brimming with burgundy-hued flesh, and bounced it around in his arms like a baby.“Beautiful,” he said.Mr. Paiva, the highest-volume fish cutter at the popular Boston wholesaler Wulf’s Fish, has become something of a celebrity at a job that normally doesn’t attract much attention. The videos of his cutting skills that he regularly posts on Instagram have drawn hundreds of thousands of views, and comments from admirers around the world who are mesmerized by his swift, graceful motions and the sheer size of the fish he breaks down. Mr. Paiva’s bravura personality is big, too. He often adds urgent background music, or shouts out his slogan: “Boom!” Occasionally, he’ll lick or kiss the fish, or cut out a small piece and eat it — theatrics that have won him comparisons to Salt Bae, the Turkish chef (real name: Nusret Gokce) famed online for playfully salting steaks. Some fans call Mr. Paiva “Fillet Bae.”Many of those followers might be surprised to know that little over a decade ago, Mr. Paiva (pronounced PIE-ay-vah) had never even touched a knife. He was a professional soccer player in Brazil.Mr. Paiva, 37, grew up surrounded by seafood; his hometown, Ilhéus, is on Brazil’s eastern coastline. But he was most interested in playing soccer. “Eighty percent of Brazilians are raised with a ball in their hands,” he said.At age 17, in 1998, Mr. Paiva was spotted by a talent scout and invited to become a goalie for Colo Colo de Futebol e Regatas, his town’s professional soccer club. He was the youngest player on the team.“I was living the dream,” he recalled­. Many people his age wanted to play soccer professionally, and the Brazilian teams are known the world over.But a few years later, at the prime of his career, he cracked his ribs trying to catch a ball, and a doctor told him he couldn’t play soccer anymore. “I was devastated,” Mr. Paiva said.In 2004 his father sent him to Norwich, Conn., to live with family friends and get his mind off soccer. Mr. Paiva found a job as a dishwasher at Jasper White’s Summer Shack, a seafood restaurant in the nearby Mohegan Sun casino.He worked his way up to shucking oysters. Then one day, his boss threw 100 pounds of bluefish onto the counter and showed him how to break them down into fillets.Fish cutting “was really unfamiliar to me,” Mr. Paiva said. “In Brazil, we eat everything whole, with the bones. But this was fun.” And he loved eating seafood.
NEW YORK — The future of NBA basketball could look like European soccer.Tournaments that take place during the season along with league games intrigue Commissioner Adam Silver as a way to change the format of the NBA's 82-game season.If it even keeps an 82-game season.Silver mentioned everything from shorter games to a shorter season Friday as ways the NBA could make its future product better for players and fans."The format we have in place now — I'm a traditionalist on one hand, but on the other hand it's 50 years old or so, presenting an 82-game season, and there's nothing magical about it," Silver said."I think it's on the league office to always be challenging the way we do things, to be paying attention to changing viewer habits, a changing marketplace, a new world of the way media is presented, often on smaller devices, less on screens, people having shorter attention spans, and saying, 'This is an incredible game, it's never been more exciting, the athleticism has never been greater, fantastic players coming from all around the world, but what's the best way to put the season together?'"Silver has focused on player health as commissioner, opening the regular season earlier to reduce the frequency of back-to-back games, and lengthening the All-Star break.But players are still sitting out games throughout the season — either by their choice or because their teams are requiring it — often for reasons being listed as load management."I think a fair point from fans could be if ultimately the science suggests that 82 games is too many games for these players, maybe you shouldn't have an 82-game season," Silver said. "I accept that, and that's something we'll continue to look at."Fewer games could mean less revenue, unless they could be replaced by something that would generate as many or more viewers. Tournaments could be an answer, even if 82 games remains the format.Silver has pointed to European soccer as something that could bring new interest to the NBA by offering teams more opportunities to win something, instead of just having one champion."That's why I'm particularly interested in looking at different kinds of formats — at midseason tournaments, for example, play-in tournaments — because even accepting that players have so many miles on their bodies, there may be better ways to present it," Silver said. "Assuming guys are going to play 82 games, maybe there should be a certain number of games in the regular season and then there should be two tournaments throughout the season."He acknowledged that model would require a change of thinking in American fans, who are used to only caring about the winner of the NBA Finals.Silver also mentioned the possibility of trimming games from 48 minutes to 40, which is the length of college and international games.He cautioned that none of the changes he discussed after the league's Board of Governors meetings were close to being implemented, and would continue to be studied within the league, perhaps for a few years.
FRIDAY PUZZLE — Happy Friday! Deb is visiting one of her children and Howard Barkin’s puzzle is abuzz with interesting entries, so here’s to life, everybody. Everywhere you look in this grid today there’s something that leaps, creeps, bites or stings, plus symbolism, and snacks. What’s not to like?The littlest things grab me sometimes; today the clue for ANT reminded me of my favorite fable. (Am I a self-righteous scold sometimes? Signs point to yes, I love a good MAXIM.) I knew MIA SARA from a fun movie and THE LORAX from a profound book, and figured out MADMEN and ROGUE ONE with little issue. I went a cropper, though, with the “television character at” 54D and the “start to place names” at 54A. I had “sori” and “san,” which didn’t correct until I figured out the extremely witty clue for SEXT at 56D, and then fixing “san” to LAS and “sori” to LORI. 22A: I can’t attest to its current acceptability, nor have I used the term myself, but I have heard various pet pix described as “TOTES adorbs” on occasion. It’s a snappy replacement for the overused “tooootally,” which reliably comes back from the dead when its substitutes, like TOTES, lose conversational currency. I was briefly waylaid by mis-entering “I have to ask” at 12D.24A: I thought I might be looking for some small character in “Moby Dick,” this being a Friday, but we are indeed in a Starbucks, and between this one and the next Starbucks is a competing coffee shop, hiding in McDonald's, a MCCAFE. 57A: Never heard of him, but Wayne ROONEY is a current star and plays in the United States, with Major League Soccer’s D.C. United, although he hails from England. If you follow international soccer you probably know him and MESSI with no problem.11D: I solved the upper right corner here pretty slowly and was unable to deduce anything from the crosses on this unexpected entry. When it finally filled in, I thought it: SON OF A!28D: This is a debut, and something I take for granted — I walk down an avenue from the subway to my home, which is blessed with late-night STREET FOOD galore. And it is possible that New York pales in comparison to Hong Kong, which has options that have been listed by Michelin and sound quite otherworldly (and EXTRA CRISPY). Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?
Manchester United and Barcelona were drawn together in the Champions League quarterfinals on Friday in Nyon, Switzerland.Between them the clubs have eight Champions League titles, Barcelona most recently in 2015 and Manchester United not since 2008.The other quarterfinals are Ajax-Juventus, Liverpool-Porto and Tottenham-Manchester City.After eliminating Real Madrid in the last round, Ajax, which has advanced further in the Champions League than any time since 2003, will now have to face Juventus, which rallied to eliminate Atlético Madrid on Tuesday behind a Ronaldo hat trick.There are four English teams in the last eight, but only Spurs and Manchester City were drawn against one another. Those are also the only teams left that have never won the European title.Manchester City, currently leading the Premier League, is the favorite to win the Champions League this season, ahead of Juventus, Barcelona and Liverpool.Liverpool is likely to be happiest with its draw; it will take on Porto, at 125-1 the longest shot left in the competition.In the semifinal, the Spurs-City winner will take on Ajax or Juventus, and the United-Barcelona winner will face Liverpool or Porto.The first legs will be played on April 9 and 10, with the return games are April 16 and 17. The final is June 1 in Madrid.The quarterfinal matchups in the second-tier Europa League are: Napoli-Arsenal, Villarreal-Valencia, Benfica-Eintracht Frankfurt and Slavia Prague-Chelsea. Chelsea is currently the bookmakers’ favorite, ahead of Napoli and Arsenal, with Slavia the outsider.
A teenage girl who did not play soccer magically became a star soccer recruit at Yale. Cost to her parents: $1.2 million.A high school boy eager to enroll at the University of Southern California was falsely deemed to have a learning disability so he could take his standardized test with a complicit proctor who would make sure he got the right score. Cost to his parents: at least $50,000.A student with no experience rowing won a spot on the U.S.C. crew team after a photograph of another person in a boat was submitted as evidence of her prowess. Her parents wired $200,000 into a special account.In a major college admissions scandal that laid bare the elaborate lengths some wealthy parents will go to get their children into competitive American universities, federal prosecutors charged 50 people on Tuesday in a brazen scheme to buy spots in the freshman classes at Yale, Stanford and other big-name schools.[The college admissions scandal has raised a lot of questions. We’ve answered them here.]Thirty-three well-heeled parents were charged in the case, including Hollywood celebrities and prominent business leaders, and prosecutors said there could be additional indictments to come.Also implicated were top college athletic coaches, who were accused of accepting millions of dollars to help admit undeserving students to a wide variety of colleges, from the University of Texas at Austin to Wake Forest and Georgetown, by suggesting they were top athletes.The parents included the television star Lori Loughlin and her husband, the fashion designer Mossimo Giannulli; the actress Felicity Huffman; and William E. McGlashan Jr., a partner at the private equity firm TPG, officials said.[Read more here about the scheme worked, from bribes to doctored photos.]The scheme unveiled Tuesday was stunning in its breadth and audacity. It was the Justice Department’s largest-ever college admissions prosecution, a sprawling investigation that involved 200 agents nationwide and resulted in charges against 50 people in six states.The charges also underscored how college admissions have become so cutthroat and competitive that some have sought to break the rules. The authorities say the parents of some of the nation’s wealthiest and most privileged students sought to buy spots for their children at top universities, not only cheating the system, but potentially cheating other hard-working students out of a chance at a college education.In many of the cases, prosecutors said, the students were not aware that their parents were doctoring their test scores and lying to get them into school. Federal prosecutors did not charge any students or universities with wrongdoing.“The parents are the prime movers of this fraud,” Andrew E. Lelling, the United States attorney for the District of Massachusetts, said Tuesday during a news conference. Mr. Lelling said that those parents used their wealth to create a separate and unfair admissions process for their children.“The real victims in this case are the hardworking students” who were displaced in the admissions process by “far less qualified students and their families who simply bought their way in,” Mr. Lelling said.At the center of the sweeping financial crime and fraud case was William Singer, the founder of a college preparatory business called the Edge College & Career Network, also known as The Key.
The scheme was as brazen as it was elaborate: Dozens of wealthy parents, according to court documents filed Tuesday, paid millions of dollars in bribes to secure the admission of their children into elite universities.Test scores were inflated, essays were falsified and photographs were doctored, all in an illicit effort to gain entry to schools such as Yale, the University of Southern California and Georgetown. [Read more on the Justice Department’s largest ever college admissions prosecution.]“We help the wealthiest families in the U.S. get their kids into school,” said William Singer, the founder of The Edge College & Career Network, in a phone call with a parent he was helping to cheat, according to the charging documents. “There is a front door which means you get in on your own. The back door is through institutional advancement, which is 10 times as much money. And I’ve created this side door in.”Here is how Mr. Singer helped dozens of parents, including high-profile Hollywood actors and wealthy business leaders, get their children into top schools, according to the charging documents. [The college admissions scandal has raised a lot of questions. We’ve answered them here.]Mr. Singer would instruct parents to seek special circumstances for their children to take the SAT or ACT, the required standardized tests for acceptance to four-year universities. Parents would use medical documentation to claim their children had a learning disability. The students would then be given a chance to take the tests in a room with only a proctor, and sometimes over two days. Then they would sign up to take the exams at either a public high school in Houston or a private college prep school in West Hollywood, two locations that Mr. Singer said he “controlled.” Mr. Singer would tell clients to come up with a reason they would be in Houston or Hollywood, such as for a bar mitzvah or a wedding.Parents paid between $15,000 and $75,000 to Mr. Singer’s company so their children could be helped in one of three ways: Someone else would take the SAT or ACT exams for the student; a person would serve as the proctor and guide the students to the right answers; or someone would review and correct the students’ answers after the tests were taken. In one case, according to the documents, Felicity Huffman, an actress, told Mr. Singer her daughter’s high school had its own exam proctor in mind.Elisabeth Kimmel, the owner of a media company, used Mr. Singer’s services twice, first for her daughter in 2012 and then for her son in 2017, according to the documents. Her daughter attended Georgetown as a purported tennis recruit, and her son was accepted to the University of Southern California as a track-and-field pole-vaulter. But he was caught off guard during orientation.According to the documents, Jane Buckingham, who owns a boutique marketing firm in Los Angeles, agreed to pay $50,000 to Mr. Singer’s company so that someone other than her son would take the ACT. But the proctor would need to write the essay portion in a handwriting that mimicked her son’s.According to the charging documents, after the exams were scored high enough so that the students became competitive applicants, the parents paid bribes — structured as donations to the university and funneled through The Key — to university coaches, who would identify their children as athletic recruits.
Zinedine Zidane knew as soon as the name flashed up on his phone. Late last week, after Real Madrid crashed out of the Champions League to Ajax and saw painful defeats to Barcelona end its hopes in both La Liga and the Copa del Rey, Florentino Pérez, the club’s president, called the man he regards as “the best coach in the world.” He asked him to come back.“And here I am,” Zidane said.Just 284 days after he left Madrid — after three Champions League titles in three years — after claiming that both he and the club needed a “change,” Zidane walked back into the media suite at the Santiago Bernabéu flanked by his wife, Veronique, Pérez, and a phalanx of Real legends.After just two phone conversations with Pérez, Zidane agreed to take charge of Real until the summer of 2022. His love for the club he had graced as both a player and a coach, he said, was too great for him to resist. “I could not say no,” he said. “I am here because the president called me.”If Pérez had known it was that simple, he might have moved to get in touch sooner. Zidane lives in Madrid; he has witnessed, firsthand, the “difficult” season his team has endured, first under Julen Lopetegui — poached from the Spanish national team on the eve of the World Cup in June, fired before Halloween — and then his replacement, the former youth team coach Santiago Solari. “I was watching my players, and I was not happy about how things were” he said.Madrid sits third in La Liga, behind not only Barcelona but also its city rival, Atlético; it is out of the Copa del Rey; and, most damaging of all, it was eliminated by Ajax in the last 16 of the Champions League last week, losing the second leg of the tie by 4-1 at home. “We are going through a difficult and complicated moment,” Pérez said. “We know what pain that brings the fans.”Little wonder, then, that Zidane — just as he did when he left Madrid, five days after lifting the third of those Champions Leagues — took to the rostrum once again speaking of the need for change. “This club is what had to and has to change,” he said. “Things have to change, in every way. We have to change for next season.”The nature of the change, though, is likely to be very different: Real must transform from a position of relative weakness, rather than strength. That is likely to mean a considerable overhaul of the playing staff: Pérez had long since accepted the need for an injection of funds into the team this coming summer, with the likes of Eden Hazard, the Chelsea forward, under consideration to join a third incarnation of the so-called Galactico project. Several high-profile members of the current squad, including Isco and Gareth Bale, may well have to be sacrificed to balance the books.The principal difference, then, is Zidane’s energy for the challenge. “I left the club because I needed it, for me, though at the time the club did not,” he said. “Since I love the president, and the club, I am here. After eight months, I want to coach again.”He has spent the last nine months, he said, “recharging my batteries, doing my things.” His list of honors, the unbroken European success he enjoyed in his first and only managerial role, ensured that he had not been short of suitors — he said he had received offers from several other teams — but none offered the emotional allure of Real.“Now I am ready to have the experience of coaching Madrid again,” he said. “They have given me the chance to be in this club once more, this club that I love very much.”
NEW YORK — Baseball's 2026 All-Star Game will be played in Philadelphia to mark the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, a person familiar with the planning told The Associated Press.The person spoke on condition of anonymity Thursday because no announcement had been made.A news conference is scheduled for Tuesday with Independence Hall as a backdrop and is to include Commissioner Rob Manfred, Phillies owner John Middleton, Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf and Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney.This will be the first All-Star Game at Citizens Bank Park, which opened in 2004. The 1976 All-Star Game was played at Veterans Stadium to mark the 200th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, and the 1996 All-Star Game also was played at the Vet, which stood in the same sports complex in South Philadelphia. The 1943 and 1952 games were at Shibe Park.This year's All-Star Game is July 9 at Cleveland's Progressive Field, which also hosted the All-Stars in 1997, when the ballpark was known as Jacobs Field. The 2020 game will be at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, site of the 1980 game. Sites for 2021-25 have not been announced.Lincoln Financial Field, adjacent to Citizens Bank Park, is among the venues under consideration to hold matches during soccer's World Cup in June and July 2026.___
CHESTER, Pa. — Jill Ellis has had three years to tinker.She knew better than anyone how quickly this summer’s Women’s World Cup would arrive, so Ellis, the United States women’s national team coach, started remaking her squad almost as soon as it crashed out of the 2016 Rio Olympics.She tinkered while her star forward signed a contract to play in France for half a season, and she tinkered when her captain signed a similar deal to join a club in England. She tinkered by bringing in new players and by dropping old ones. She tested new formations and tweaked more familiar ones, and engaged in experiments prompted by injuries, player availability and even curiosity.But Ellis said Tuesday that she is done tinkering. The players — with at least one notable exception — who are in camp for the three-game She Believes Cup, which they started with a disappointing (at least defensively) 2-2 draw against Japan on Wednesday, will form the core of the group Ellis will take to defend the United States’ world championship at the World Cup in France.There are, of course, familiar names — Alex Morgan, Megan Rapinoe, Julie Ertz, Tobin Heath — in camp. But fans who haven’t followed the team since it won its World Cup title in Canada will soon come to know several new ones, too: Rose Lavelle, Jessica McDonald, Sam Mewis, Tierna Davidson. And for the first time since 2005, the United States will enter a major tournament without Hope Solo in goal.But 100 days before the World Cup opens — a milestone that arrived on Wednesday — Ellis and her players said this week that their biggest questions already had been asked and answered.“You’ve kind of built the skeleton,” Ellis said. “Now we’re working on the nervous system.”The process has not always been pleasant. Lloyd, the star of the 2015 World Cup victory, has been eased into a supporting role, and players like Lindsey Horan and Crystal Dunn — who were not part of the 2015 team — have become nearly irreplaceable. Blessed with a wealth of speed and attacking options, Ellis toyed with a three-defender system early in the process to see if a relentless focus on getting forward would enjoy adequate cover if the ball was turned over. Spoiler: It didn’t, so she adjusted again.“I would say that it was uncomfortable,” defender Becky Sauerbrunn said of working through the evolution in real time. “And she was very honest with us and was saying she wants it to be uncomfortable.”“She said she was going to throw people into formations and into games that maybe they weren’t prepared for,” Sauerbrunn added. “And she wanted to see how they reacted, because in a World Cup you never know what you’re going to face, and you’re going to have to be able to take those challenges on and still perform well. And so I feel very strong having gone through that process.”The focus now is on polishing partnerships and connections, the “nervous system” connecting players on the field that Ellis mentioned Tuesday. Those connections were clearly lacking at times on Wednesday night, particularly in a makeshift back line that was missing the leadership and direction of an absent Sauerbrunn.“We definitely talk about relationships a lot — who you’re playing with on the sides of the field, who you’re playing with in the middle of the field, and your relationships with them,” Mewis said. “And the coaches have definitely mentioned to us that not only are they looking at individual players, they’re looking at how those players interact with the players around them.”Health issues have complicated some of those decisions. Horan, a fixture in the American midfield, will miss the She Believes Cup with a quad injury. The 20-year-old Davidson (broken ankle) and the 30-year-old Kelley O’Hara (ankle surgery) are still working their way back into top form.One of the players hoping to contend for a place in the midfield with Horan out, Danielle Colaprico, was ruled out herself this week because of a recurrence of a groin injury. Emily Fox, a young defender who had seemingly fallen out of the picture after a poor performance at left back against France in January, replaced Colaprico on the roster — but there are no guarantees Fox will go to the World Cup.“The door’s not closed for anybody,” Ellis said, though she acknowledged the time had long passed when she could afford to give a player on the fringes of the team an extended look.
In many ways, there has never been a better time to be a member of the United States women’s national hockey team.Two years after the players threatened to boycott the world championship tournament over pay equity, U.S.A. Hockey, the national governing body, is paying them more than ever, about $71,000 each annually.On the ice, the American women have continued to exceed the achievements of the men’s national team and won their second Olympic gold medal in a stirring final against Canada.Members of the team have skated in the skills competition at N.H.L. All-Star weekend and served as analysts for N.H.L. television broadcasts. Participation in the sport among girls and women is skyrocketing.But halfway through the labor contract with U.S.A. Hockey signed in March 2017, as the national team begins its pursuit of a fifth straight world championship in Finland this week, its players wonder whether the future of their sport is as bright as the present. Those concerns grew after the Canadian Women’s Hockey League, one of two professional leagues in North America, announced Sunday it would fold in May.Although the American players negotiated gains in salary and travel and medical benefits two years ago, the “groundbreaking support” for girls and women’s hockey promised by U.S.A. Hockey in the contract has been slow to develop. The Women’s High Performance Advisory Group created in the deal has been largely invisible. Minimal promotion for the team and a lack of organizational diversity in U.S.A. Hockey also raise concerns from players and female alumni that little has changed.“People are drooling for women’s hockey,” forward Kendall Coyne Schofield said in an interview late last year. “But the product we deliver isn’t being shown. There’s been a lot of lost opportunities, a lot of opportunities that haven’t been capitalized on.”Those opportunities included high-profile media appearances before the Olympics like a national magazine feature, a major network documentary series and other live television offers, which U.S.A. Hockey declined, according to three people with direct knowledge of those projects. After the Olympics, some players were unaware that they were eligible for four-figure bonuses offered by Hershey’s for winning the gold medal.U.S.A. Hockey’s executive director, Pat Kelleher, was not made available for an interview to discuss the women’s national team.After the Olympics, the women’s team embarked on a weeklong national media tour, but players were frustrated that there were no plans for a post-Olympic exhibition tour. In an interview late last year, forward Hilary Knight lamented that the team disappeared when its popularity was at its highest.Because of the talent disparity between North American teams and the rest of the world, there are not many viable opponents for the Americans, and Canada’s cooperation is necessary. Last month, the two nations finally staged a three-game exhibition series, with one game in the United States. An announced crowd of 9,048 fans attended the game in Detroit, which was also broadcast live on NHL Network.But other avenues to increase exposure do not need Canadian co-signs, like merchandising. Nike, the official apparel supplier of U.S.A. Hockey and a company that champions equality in advertisements, does not sell jerseys of American women’s players or products specifically featuring female players. Neither does U.S.A. Hockey’s online store.Coyne Schofield, one of the players who has been featured by the N.H.L. since the Olympics, is inundated with inquiries from parents about where they can buy apparel with her name. She has memorized a response with detailed instructions on how to purchase customized men’s items, even down to the six-week shipping time frame. That’s how Knight obtained replicas of her jersey for her family.“That alone is so degrading,” Coyne Schofield said. “There’s no reason why anybody shouldn’t be able to go on usahockey.com and buy a Hilary Knight jersey, my jersey. Right now, women’s hockey is not accessible to consumers. It needs to be accessible in every fashion.”Nike, which recently unveiled soccer kits for the 2019 Women’s World Cup that for the first time were specifically designed for women’s teams, did not respond to requests to discuss its women’s hockey apparel.
TORONTO — The Maple Leafs superstars John Tavares and Auston Matthews have been as good as advertised this season, and often even better.But Mitch Marner, who came to this championship-starved city with high expectations after he was chosen with the No. 4 overall pick in 2015, has had a breakout year and made a case that he’s the most valuable Maple Leafs forward.Marner, a 21-year-old winger, led Toronto in points this season and became the youngest player in Maple Leafs history to record 90 points, the first to hit that benchmark in 22 years.Marner finished 11th in the N.H.L. with 94 points (26 goals and 68 assists), six points ahead of Tavares and 21 ahead of Matthews, who missed 14 games because of injury. Marner and Tavares play on the same line, and Marner was a key reason Tavares, in his first season in Toronto, had a career-high 47 goals this season.[N.H.L. playoffs: first-round schedule and results]Tavares, Matthews and Marner, along with goaltender Frederik Andersen, will need to be at their best as the Maple Leafs seek postseason redemption against the Boston Bruins, their first-round opponent for the second straight season. Their best-of-seven series starts Thursday in Boston.The wounds remain fresh from last spring’s opening round, when Toronto coughed up a 4-3 second-period lead and lost, 7-4, in a shocking conclusion to Game 7.But last season the Leafs didn’t have Tavares, the longtime Islanders star. His signing to a seven-year, $77 million contract as a free agent last summer created hope in a city long accustomed to hockey failure. The Leafs haven’t won the Stanley Cup since 1967 and haven’t won a playoff series since 2004.Although Marner can’t match Tavares or Matthews in goal-scoring ability, he has wowed everyone with his vision.“The one thing about Marner,” Tampa Bay Lightning Coach Jon Cooper said, “is he is as smart a player as this league has not only seen this year, but has ever seen.”Marner attributes his creativity to playing multiple sports as a youth. Soccer helped develop his footwork, and lacrosse was important in developing his hands and mobility around the goal area.“Both soccer and lacrosse are creative in their own ways,” Marner said. “In soccer, I was a midfielder so I did a lot of the running up and down the field, and lacrosse-wise I think it helped with the hands a lot. It’s a different kind of motion in lacrosse for trying to get around guys, so I think that helped as well.”Born in Markham, Ontario, north of Toronto, Marner evokes comparisons to Patrick Kane and Johnny Gaudreau, other elusive, flashy stickhandlers. But in these parts, the 6-foot, 175 pound Marner is more reminiscent of Doug Gilmour, another smallish Maple Leafs forward who brought a heart and joy to the game.“He’s skilled, explosive and wants the puck and sees the ice so well,” said Gilmour, who believes Marner will someday break his franchise record for assists in a season, 95.Tavares said Marner has talked to him on the bench about the patterns he saw opponents employing.
PARIS — French TV group TF1 will exclusively broadcast the 2019 Rugby World Cup in France, it said on Wednesday, lifting the shares of the country's major TV broadcaster."After the success of previous editions, notably during the 2011 final between France and the All Blacks with 17.8 million viewers and 87 percent of audience share, TF1 Group will offer the French audience all 48 matches of the 2019 Rugby World Cup," TF1 said in a statement.TF1 shares were up 4.1 percent at 0750 GMT, and were the best performers on Paris' SBF-120 index, as analysts and fund managers welcomed the contract win."Given the sluggishness of the overall advertising market, any bit of good news regarding TV advertising is going to be well received by the market. In that context, winning exclusive rights for the Rugby World Cup - even if it's not as big as the soccer World Cup - is a good bit of news for TF1," said Gregoire Laverne, fund manager at Roche Brune Asset Management.France will go into this year's Rugby World Cup in Japan, which takes place from September through to November, on the back of a poor Six Nations tournament.Jacques Brunel, the coach of "Les Bleus", believes his team can iron out their problems before the World Cup but another disappointing Six Nations campaign suggested it would be an achievement for them to reach the knockout rounds in Japan.France beat Scotland and Italy in the Six Nations but were thrashed by England and Ireland, and their second-half collapse against Wales showed their mental fragility. (Additional reporting by Blandine Henault; Editing by Richard Lough and Mark Potter)
(Reuters) - Nike Inc's long-time brand ambassador Tiger Woods gave investors another reason to cheer on Monday, after the world's biggest name in golf won the Masters, pushing the company's stock higher.In his signature red shirt and black shoes with the Nike "swoosh" logo, the 43-year-old came back from a series of setbacks to claim his fifth Green Jacket on Sunday, ending an 11-year major title drought."A win for a high profile endorser is a clear win for the brand," Nomura Instinet analyst Simeon Siegel said.Nike celebrated his victory by posting an ad on its website titled "Tiger Woods: Same Dream," which has received nearly 500,000 views on YouTube in less than a day.President Donald Trump praised the win, tweeting: "Love people who are great under pressure. What a fantastic life comeback for a really great guy!"Nike and Woods forged a partnership that dates back more than two decades through good times and bad publicity. The brand already has a celebrated pool of endorsers, including tennis star Serena Williams, basketball phenom LeBron James, soccer stars Cristiano Ronaldo and Neymar Jr, as well as golfers Francesco Molinari and Brooks Koepka. While not transformational, Woods' win should provide a boost to Nike's golf apparel business, marketing consultancy firm Metaforce co-founder Allen Adamson said."His win is good for golf and its good for Nike," he said. Nike's shares were up about 1 percent at $87 Monday morning. (Reporting by Nivedita Balu and Uday Sampath Kumar in Bengaluru; Editing by Anil D'Silva)
COPENHAGEN — Chinese pandas Xing Er and Mao Sun are settling into their new home at Copenhagen Zoo.Their 160 million Danish crowns ($24 million) enclosure was opened to the public on Thursday by Denmark's Crown Princess Mary after the animals were officially welcomed on Wednesday. "We're enjoying the sun today - it couldn't be better. A lot of guests will come today to see the real life pandas," the Australian-born princess told reporters on Thursday."That a zoo has pandas is unique and can be compared to advancing in the Champions League," zoo spokesperson Jacob Munkholm Hoeck said, likening it to the elite soccer tournament.The zoo is hoping to start a breeding programme with the animals."We have a female panda named Mao Sun and a male panda called Xing Er and they are five and six years old ... In the wild they live on their own, just like here. But once every year when the female is on heat, we'll bring them together and then we hope they can make panda babies," the spokesman said. Queen Margrethe cut the ribbon on the animals' new enclosure during a ceremony on Wednesday which drew a small number of protesters. A few protesters waving Tibetan flags were also gathered outside of the zoo on Thursday. Danish-Chinese relations have improved markedly since a low point 10 years ago, when Prime Minister Lars Lokke Rasmussen met the Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, who Beijing brands as a dangerous separatist.Copenhagen Zoo, which hit the headlines for the killing and public dissection of a healthy giraffe five years ago, has become the 27th of the world's around 10,000 zoos to have pandas, and the ninth in Europe.  ($1 = 6.6404 Danish crowns)  (Reporting by Teis Jensen; Editing by Alison Williams)
FRONT PAGEAn article on Sunday about the impact of child care on Japanese women’s careers described incorrectly employment statistics for women in Japan. The proportion of working women employed part time is close to half, not more than half, and the proportion on temporary contracts is more than half, not about a third.INTERNATIONALA headline with an article on Monday about the discovery of the wreckage of the aircraft that crashed carrying the Argentine soccer striker Emiliano Sala referred incorrectly to the plane. As the article correctly stated, it was a single-engine, propeller-driven airplane, not a jet.ARTSAn entry on Monday in the “What’s on TV” highlights described incorrectly the debut episode of “Elvis Goes There.” It opens with a visit to London with the actor and director Paul Feig, not a visit to Oakland, Calif., with the director Ryan Coogler.•An article on Sept. 21 about Maroon 5’s scheduled appearance in Sunday’s Super Bowl halftime show misstated the name of the band’s song with Cardi B. It is “Girls Like You,” not “Girls Like Us.” (The correction was delayed, because it was only recently brought to the attention of the editor.)Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.


MANCHESTER, England — Some soccer players in England boycotting social media in a protest against racism were targeted with abuse for posting about the 24-hour campaign.Talks with the social media companies are now being urgently sought by the Professional Footballers' Association, which coordinated the "Enough" campaign to demand a crackdown on racism by the platforms.There was silence on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram from many players from 0800 GMT Friday for 24 hours."Yesterday, some members received racist abuse on their #Enough posts. When these incidents were reported, the response from social networks was — again — unacceptable," the PFA said in a statement. "In the coming days, we will be inviting players to report any racist abuse they have received to us. We will collate it and share it with social platforms to demonstrate the impact of their lack of action.""We will be requesting meetings with each of the social platforms as a matter of priority," the PFA said. "Meetings with the Football Association and government are planned for next month. This is a first step in a larger player-led campaign to tackle racism and demand meaningful change."The boycott was advocated by Tottenham defender Danny Rose, who was targeted with monkey noises while playing for England in Montenegro last month, and Manchester United defender Chris Smalling, who called for more stringent regulation of posts on social media.Social media companies did not appear to respond on their networks to the players' concerns despite widespread coverage and support from FIFA for the boycott.Twitter did not respond to an email from The Associated Press requesting comment and Facebook, which also owns Instagram, provided a statement that did not directly address the players' concerns."We will remove hate speech or credible threats of any kind, and we encourage anyone who sees content they find offensive to report it so we can remove anything that breaks our community standards," Facebook said by email. "We have developed a range of tools that allow users to moderate and filter the content that people put on their pages including; hiding or deleting comments, blocking certain words, turning on a profanity filter, and banning people."___
Less than a month after the New England Patriots won the Super Bowl, a group of Massachusetts lawmakers has proposed a bill that would ban organized youth tackle football until after seventh grade.The bill, which moved to the Massachusetts legislature’s Joint Committee on Public Health this week, follows unsuccessful attempts by legislators in five other states to pass similar measures to protect growing brains from traumatic injury.The bipartisan bill, known as No Hits, would impose financial penalties for any school league or other entity that does not comply.“There is significant science detailing repetitive head impacts have long-term neurological consequences, especially when they occur during brain development,” one of the bill’s sponsors, Representative Paul A. Schmid III, a Democrat, said in a statement.Although some medical professionals and former N.F.L. players have signaled their support for the measure and public opinion could buoy its prospects, the bill is already facing headwinds.Two representatives who initially supported the measure have withdrawn their names from the bill, and a few other legislators said they would not support it.“Should we ban youth soccer too?” asked Representative David Nangle, a Democrat who opposes the bill. “Or youth hockey? When do we stop legislating into areas that we shouldn’t be?”A spokeswoman for U.S.A. Football, which governs youth football, said in a statement that the organization believes that decisions on allowing children to play football are “best left to parents.” To that end, she said, it has created a set of guidelines developed by leaders in athlete development and football.The executive director of Pop Warner, Jon Butler, said in a statement that the organization had worked to improve player safety by eliminating the three-point stance and removing kickoffs for younger athletes. “Banning football is not the answer, but we do agree that we should continue our efforts to make the game safer for our kids,” he said.Studies by Boston University and other research centers have shown that children who began playing tackle football before the age of 12 were at greater risk for cognitive, mood and behavioral issues later in life, as well as conditions like chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease linked to repeated hits to the head.But there has been opposition to those findings from the N.F.L. and even from well-intentioned parents, said Michael Kaplen, a lawyer who teaches a legal course on traumatic brain injury and tracks legislation governing youth tackle football. Mr. Kaplen said that there was no such thing as safer tackling and that a youth league’s promoting safer tackling would be similar to big tobacco companies’ offering low-nicotine cigarettes.“People don’t understand that even a minor blow to the head has risks,” he said. “It may take years for these problems to become unmasked.”Steve Dembowski, 49, an executive board member of the Massachusetts High School Football Coaches Association, said parents, rather than the state, should be able to make choices for their children.“Considering that kids at that age get concussions playing soccer and baseball and any other sport where they can fall and hit their head on the ground,” he said, “it seems like an overstep of authority.”Damon Stanton, 43, has two sons who play football, and he coaches youth football in Hanson, Mass., about 25 miles south of Boston.
COSTA MESA, Calif. — Dean Spanos is breathing a sigh of relief.Spanos, owner of the Los Angeles Chargers, has been criticized relentlessly for moving his team out of San Diego — into a soccer stadium, no less — and for the tepid reception the team has received in its new home 100 or so miles north.But in sports, winning is the ultimate elixir, and the Chargers (and their new crosstown rivals, the Rams) are winning.The Chargers went a surprising 12-4 this season, including victories in Seattle, Pittsburgh and Kansas City. They will face the Patriots in Foxborough, Mass. on Sunday.The wins come at a critical time for the team, which has started selling seat licenses to would-be season-ticket holders in the new, 70,000-seat stadium the Chargers will share with the Rams beginning in 2020.In an interview at the team’s training facility this week, Spanos said that the Chargers’ success was helping generate interest in the team, but that winning over fans in Los Angeles was a long-term project.On the team’s decision to play temporarily in a 27,000-seat soccer stadium“Just being able to get around the stadium, the amenities, all the game-day experience is important, and I think it’s appreciated.”On the sale of seat licenses for season tickets in the new stadium“We’re probably where we thought we would be, and playing well really helps. Timing is everything. It kind of jumps every time [we win]. Monday mornings are great when you win in the playoffs.”On the decision to price seat licenses as low as $100“We gave up a little, but enough to make it more affordable. Once we get them there, it’s more important than trying to make another 25 or 30 bucks a ticket. And that really helps you establish yourself in the market.”On the Chargers’ commitment to the market“There’s no doubt we’re the Los Angeles Chargers. Los Angeles is our home.”On competing with the Rams and whether the city can support two N.F.L. teams
SEOUL, South Korea — Wildfires fanned by strong winds raged through hills and villages along the northeastern coast of South Korea on Thursday night and Friday morning, scorching hundreds of homes and forcing thousands to evacuate as the government declared a national disaster.By Friday afternoon, tens of thousands of firefighters, police officers and soldiers had managed to contain the largest fires, which left at least one person dead, officials said.Most of the 4,000 people who had fled homes on Thursday, creating chaotic traffic jams along narrow mountain roads, returned by Friday, the government said.President Moon Jae-in declared the wildfires a national disaster on Friday, instructing his government to direct all necessary manpower and resources to fight the flames and provide relief for distressed villagers.Mr. Moon also asked his government to consider designating the affected area a special disaster zone so that victims there could get discounts on medical and national insurance premiums, as well as other government subsidies. His government has previously declared five disaster zones in the past two years in the aftermath of floods, earthquakes and typhoons.This week’s wildfires have burned an estimated 1,297 acres of wooded land, the equivalent of over 730 soccer fields.The fires were believed to have been started by sparks from an electric transformer that was shaken by strong winds on Thursday, according to officials at the National Fire Agency.As flames raced downhill, villagers and teenagers on field trips in the area were evacuated to schools in nearby towns. More than 50 schools in the region asked their students to stay home on Friday.The region is close to the border with North Korea and near where South Korea hosted the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics. The blaze was one of the worst wildfires since 2005, when 2,400 acres of wooded land, as well as a centuries-old Buddhist temple, were destroyed on the east coast.
“Combat Obscura” opens with multiple disclaimers stating that nothing onscreen reflects official policy or has Defense Department endorsement. Given that the next moment the screen shows an explosion — and someone shouts “that’s the wrong building!” — the reason for the warnings is immediately apparent.As a United States Marine in Afghanistan, Miles Lagoze, the director, worked as a videographer, documenting scenes of war for official release. (We see a clip of such material on CNN midway through the film.) Somehow, Lagoze kept his hands on unreleased footage he and others shot in Afghanistan in 2011 and 2012, and made it the basis for this film.He presents these outtakes with minimal orientation. One through line is the mutual incomprehension between Americans and Afghans. Early on, a Marine believes an Afghan child has warned him about a bomb. He radios a translator, who listens to the boy and says he was simply trying to bum a cigarette.The Marines round up men at a gathering but ultimately release them. One American thinks it “looked like a Taliban meeting,” though the movie suggests reasons to doubt that.Later, the Marines examine a body, and one asks aloud whether they have just killed a shopkeeper. (“This is no good for people to see,” another says.) In these scenes, the decision to forgo context is powerful and troubling.The film also shows the Marines, none formally identified, during lulls, goofing off and getting high. (“Luckily for us, Afghanistan’s a hash farm,” one says.) There is optimism — a soccer game with Afghan children — and quick work tending the wounded. Leaning in to the style its patchwork of source material requires, “Combat Obscura,” is an eye-opening dispatch from a conflict mired in confusion.
WASHINGTON — A rat falling out of the arena hallway ceiling during the Carolina Hurricanes' warmup game of soccer was just a precursor to a wacky afternoon of playoff hockey.Long after the dead rodent was removed, Game 2 between the Hurricanes and Washington Capitals included a questionable ejection for a check to the head, a shot off one goalie's mask and another that went in off the other goalie's backside. It fittingly ended with an overtime goal from an unlikely source that sent the defending Stanley Cup champions into a wild celebration around the team's most popular player.Veteran leader Brooks Orpik scored 1:48 into overtime Saturday to give Washington a 4-3 victory and a 2-0 lead over Carolina in the first-round series. His fourth goal in his 151st playoff game was his third winner, and Orpik became just the 11th defenseman in NHL history with two postseason overtime goals."I'm probably not counted on for too many goals, but I think if you want to have the long runs, you need everybody kind of chipping in and doing things they don't normally do," Orpik said. "Always feels good when the team comes out on top."The Capitals came out on top thanks to Alex Ovechkin's two perfect passes, a 5-on-3 penalty kill and a stick shortage by Carolina that allowed Evgeny Kuznetsov to find Orpik for his goal. Afterward, owner Ted Leonsis quipped, "Just like it was drawn up."There was no way to script the strange happenings that unfolded on and off the ice. Perhaps it was an omen for things to come when the ball used in the Hurricanes' pregame soccer ritual knocked a rat down from the ceiling."I saw that," Carolina's Sebastian Aho said. "First time I've seen it. Kind of odd."Then the game happened. Just like Game 1, the Capitals jumped out to an early 2-0 lead — this time on goals by Nicklas Backstrom and T.J. Oshie — but this time the Hurricanes didn't wait until the third period to come back.Lucas Wallmark scored late in the first after teammate Saku Maenalanen brushed Braden Holtby, which Capitals coach Todd Reirden challenged for goaltender interference. It held up because the NHL situation room and referees determined the contact wasn't significant enough to disallow the goal."Playing the position, you know that that's interference," said Holtby, who made 25 saves. "But there's a point in hockey where you've just got to battle, too. I'm not going to complain about a call or no-call. I know that doing that is giving me the best chance to stop that puck. We move on."Things only got stranger in the second period. Less than a minute after exiting the penalty box, Hurricanes forward Micheal Ferland hit Nic Dowd while bent over and was given a five-minute match penalty for an illegal check to the head and ejected.After officials conferred and decided to make it a five-minute major, coach Rod Brind'Amour screamed at referee Steve Kozari that it was a clean hit, pointing to his hip to emphasize Ferland made mostly hip to shoulder contact. Dowd left to go through concussion protocol but returned."To be honest with you, I let up," said Ferland, who added he doesn't expect to be suspended. "I could have finished with my shoulder, but I didn't. I came, hit him with my butt. I thought it was a clean hit. I don't agree with the call."During the ensuing power play, a one-timer from defenseman John Carlson hit Hurricanes goaltender Petr Mrazek on the right side of his mask and knocked it off. Mrazek winced in pain but did not get pulled for concussion protocol and stayed in the game."It caught me a little bit on the chin there," said Mrazek, who made 29 saves. "When I fell, I didn't have the mask on and I hit the ice pretty hard with my face. That was the worst."
MINNEAPOLIS — The plains of West Texas are a long way from the bustling piazzas and porticos of northern Italy, where Davide Moretti was raised in a soccer culture and basketball was just a niche.But NBA fans in Italy can now look to the likes of Danilo Gallinari and his 20-point scoring average for the Los Angeles Clippers in a league that has made major strides in Europe since Moretti was born in Bologna 21 years ago.The college game, however, has been a decidedly foreign concept overseas, though, with the term March Madness likely to elicit strange looks even if correctly translated.Well, there's hardly been an NCAA championship with more of a global presence than this one, with Moretti's Texas Tech Red Raiders facing the Virginia Cavaliers in the title game Monday night. Eight players are from other countries.Moretti, the sophomore starting guard for Texas Tech , once played on an Italian junior national team with Virginia forward Francesco Badocchi, who has redshirted his first season."We're the first Italian guys who have ever made it to the Final Four," Moretti said, "so it's kind of a big-time thing right now back in Italy for basketball."According to data calculated by digital content producer Hero Sports, of the 1,036 players in this year's NCAA Tournament, 117 listed a home country other than the United States. Canada (23) contributed the most, followed by Australia (14). Seventeen other countries produced at least two players, including seven from African nations.For an American kid, a shooting session in the driveway after dinner could naturally include a singing of "One Shining Moment" and an idyllic vision of cutting down the nets at the national championship game. Not so much in other countries, where the presence of soccer and the significant time zone difference have long been more than enough to keep college basketball in the dark."When the games are on, it's usually when we're at school and stuff like that so we don't get to watch it because we're doing other things," said Kody Stattmann, another Virginia redshirt and a native of Australia.Starting forward Mamadi Diakite, whose buzzer-beating shot sent the Cavaliers to overtime in the Elite Eight where they outlasted Purdue, has become a national hero in Guinea. In Africa, though, his family and friends have to settle for watching replays."The day after the game, I get texts about it," Diakite said.For many of these international players, then, the desire to drape a gold, silver or bronze medal around their neck can be a bigger goal than winning an NCAA title with their college teams, as exhilarating as that can be."Playing in an Olympics is something that everybody dreams of," said Moretti, who will try to make the Italian national team for the FIBA World Cup this summer.Moretti played on junior teams in European and world championships, burnishing his credentials as one of the top international prospects before choosing Texas Tech over Indiana, Connecticut and Utah.Badocchi moved to the U.S. earlier to further develop his game in high school in Kansas, his mother's home state. Her work in the fashion industry brought her to Milan, where she met Badocchi's father.

For Arike Ogunbowale, the trip to the top of the Empire State Building on Wednesday was unusually fast.It had been arranged for her to bypass the lines and take express elevators to the observatory on the morning she was to become a professional basketball player. In the hours leading to the 2019 W.N.B.A. draft, these kinds of experiences did not faze Ogunbowale. Not after she had become one of the most recognizable faces in college basketball after hitting a pair of buzzer-beaters for Notre Dame in last year’s Final Four — one to slay Connecticut, the other to best Mississippi State and win the national championship.“Nah, I’m used to life throwing new things at me now,” Ogunbowale said with a smile as she looked out over the New York skyline.Even for the relentless Ogunbowale, the past week has brought a particular kind of whiplash.On Wednesday night, the Dallas Wings selected her fifth in the draft, after the Las Vegas Aces took her college teammate Jackie Young with the top pick.“You know, Dallas is a great place, and they have a great coach there, so I’m really excited,” Ogunbowale said, referring to Brian Agler, who has won the league title with teams in Seattle and Los Angeles. “I’m ready to get started.”The draft followed her vintage set of performances in this season’s Final Four: 23 points in another win over Connecticut, and a game-high 31 points in the national title game against Baylor. Ogunbowale’s final shots came after a drive to the basket that yielded two free throws in the waning seconds, her team trailing by 2 points.Then, the unthinkable: a miss. And a championship lost. Ogunbowale’s painful moment played out on the national stage, too, amplified in part by her previous success. Her mother, Yolanda, raced down from the stands after the game to reassure her, to say how proud she was.“Over time, she’s going to realize that she won’t be defined by that moment,” Yolanda said Wednesday, hours before her daughter would hear her name called at the W.N.B.A. draft at Nike’s New York headquarters. “I was just hurting for her, and for her teammates, because they wanted it so bad.”And there would be no time to process. A late Sunday night game turned into a Monday morning flight to South Bend, Ind., where Ogunbowale has one more class to complete at Notre Dame before she graduates.Then it was onto New York, to see the realization of a professional dream that dates back to high school in Wisconsin, though first Ogunbowale had to choose basketball over soccer. (Oddly enough, Baylor recruited her for soccer.) She and her mother both say she could have gone pro in that, too. Confidence, backed up by results, runs in the family.The path Ogunbowale chose has worked out pretty well. Over these last few days, her strength and her network of fans have fed off each other. Yolanda said Arike’s bubbly personality had drawn people into her orbit since she was a little girl.Fans recognized her at the airport as she headed back to school, and some approached to cheer her up. People took notice, too, up on the Empire State Building observation deck. For Ogunbowale, it is becoming clearer that everyone still sees in her that dynamic personality, that same person who hit buzzer-beaters, who scored 55 in a high school game, who can count LeBron James and Kobe Bryant among her fans.“Kobe, LeBron, all of them, they’ve missed some important shots in their lifetime,” Ogunbowale said. “It’s a part of the game, you know? I’m not going to be able to make every shot. So I’m glad about my career, and I think I had a great four years. Everybody’s been telling me that. I mean, that’s just one shot. But what you’ve done these four years for the program, for just women’s basketball in general, is big.”How big? After the loss, Bryant reached out directly to encourage her. There seems to be something about Ogunbowale that make people root for her (unless they are part of the Connecticut faithful, that is).
The Obie Award-winning actress Quincy Tyler Bernstine got married last September on a rooftop in Brooklyn, but the honeymoon to St. Kitts had to wait. One of the most valuable performers in some of the boldest new Off Broadway work, she can seem almost omnipresent on New York stages. You might assume a show got in the way.Nope. At least, not directly.“I had jury duty,” Ms. Bernstine said the other afternoon in her dressing room at Lincoln Center Theater. “And I had postponed it so many times, because of plays, that I had to go.”So in January, she was fresh from her honeymoon when she went into rehearsals for Jackie Sibblies Drury’s fractured, time-jumping biographical epic “Marys Seacole,” at LCT3. She plays the title role, a formidable woman based on a historical figure, the adventuring 19th-century Jamaican nurse Mary Seacole. (The plural in the title hints at universality.)It’s a mammoth part with monologues that stretch on and on, and Ms. Drury wrote it with her in mind. But on about day two of rehearsals, Ms. Bernstine looked at a calendar and panicked. There wasn’t going to be nearly enough time.Spoiler: She figured it out, splendidly. Ben Brantley, in a glittering review in The New York Times, deemed her “fabulous,” “commanding” and “delightfully intimidating.”In that first week of rehearsals, though, she found herself in tears every evening, walking the few blocks from the theater to CNN, where her husband, Rick Hall, is a cameraman who covers breaking news.“I would go, and he would meet me in front of the building, and I would cry,” she said. “I would wake up in the morning: Cry. This has never happened before. I didn’t know how I was going to do this.”That reaction was understandable, said her director, Lileana Blain-Cruz, given that Ms. Bernstine had to deliver five pages of monologue in one scene and seven in another.“That’s enough to make anybody’s head trip,” Ms. Blain-Cruz said. “Even though she was terrified, that terror was so beautifully, privately contained. She didn’t allow it to contaminate the room.”Ms. Bernstine calls “Marys Seacole” the most challenging thing she has ever worked on. It pushed her, she said, “almost to the brink of wanting to give up.”“The jobs that are, I think, in the end most worth it are the ones that almost break you,” she continued with perfect calm. “That sounds horrible, doesn’t it,” she said. It wasn’t meant as a question.[What’s new onstage and off: Sign up for our Theater Update newsletter]This is the kind of career Ms. Bernstine has built, gravitating toward brainy work that challenges conventions and stretches forms — plays like Anne Washburn’s “Mr. Burns, a Post-Electric Play” (she played Bart Simpson), Heidi Schreck’s “Grand Concourse” and Bess Wohl’s “Small Mouth Sounds.”She won her Obie in Lynn Nottage’s “Ruined,” and made her only Broadway appearance so far in Sarah Ruhl’s “In the Next Room, or the vibrator play.” Last season, eager to work with the director Phylicia Rashad on a Stephen Adly Guirgis revival, she went unusually brassy in “Our Lady of 121st Street.”
Chelsea has paid Borussia Dortmund $73 million to complete the signing of Christian Pulisic, making the 20-year-old the most expensive American player in history by some distance.Though moving to the Premier League has “always been Christian’s dream,” according to Dortmund’s technical director, Michael Zorc, Pulisic will have to wait six months for it to be realized. He will spend the remainder of this season on loan at the Bundesliga leader, before joining up with Maurizio Sarri’s team in the summer.In a heartfelt statement posted on Twitter on Wednesday morning, Pulisic thanked the German club for the “opportunities” it had offered him since he arrived as a “raw, excited, very nervous but exceptionally proud 16-year-old from a small American town called Hershey.”He said it had been an “honor and a dream” to play for the club, and a “privilege” to experience the support of Dortmund’s fans. He told fans there was no need to doubt his “passion, determination and 110 percent commitment” as Dortmund attempt to win a first German title since 2013.He had, however, made it clear in recent months both to Zorc and Hans-Joachim Watzke, Dortmund’s chief executive, that he did not intend to extend his contract — due to expire in 2020 — at Signal Iduna Park. Instead, he had set his heart on moving to England, something related to his “American background,” according to Zorc. “Against that background, we have decided to accept an extremely lucrative bid from Chelsea,” Zorc said.The fee — more than three times the amount Wolfsburg paid Hertha Berlin for John Brooks, the German-born U.S. international, in 2017 — makes Pulisic the third most expensive player in Chelsea’s history, and the third most expensive player ever purchased from a Bundesliga team.It represents something of a success for Dortmund given that Pulisic has started just five of the team’s Bundesliga fixtures this season, having recovered from injury to find the likes of Jadon Sancho and Jacob Bruun Larsen blocking his path. He has started more regularly in the Champions League, featuring in all but one of Dortmund’s group games as the German team qualified with ease for the competition’s last 16.For Chelsea, though, Pulisic’s appeal had not faded. Aside from the likely marketing benefits of employing the most high-profile American player of his generation, Marina Granovskaia, the director who oversees the Premier League team’s transfer activity, described the signing as something of a coup for Pulisic’s on-field qualities.“Christian has shown his quality during a fantastic spell in Germany and at just 20, we believe he has the potential to become an important Chelsea player for many years to come,” Granovskaia said. “We look forward to welcoming him to Stamford Bridge in the summer and wish him and Dortmund every success for the remainder of the season.”Pulisic described the chance to sign for such a “legendary club” as a “privilege,” and said he “looked forward to being a contributor to their team of world-class players.”Whether Chelsea’s most obviously world-class player — Eden Hazard — remains in place when Pulisic arrives, though, remains open to question. The Belgian has admitted on several occasions that he is tempted by the prospect of a move to Real Madrid at the end of the season, though he has not agreed terms with the Spanish team and Real have not so much as submitted an offer to Chelsea, let alone had a bid accepted.Even if Hazard — whose contract also expires in 2020 — chooses to stay, the signing of Pulisic is likely to herald the departure of Willian and/or Pedro, despite the fact that Sarri has increasingly relied on playing both of them as he seeks to earn a place in the Champions League in his first year in charge at Stamford Bridge.Both are now in their 30s — Chelsea has a policy of not offering long deals to players approaching the end of their careers — and will be out of contract in 2020, too. Though Pulisic is not necessarily a like-for-like replacement for any of them, his arrival suggests Chelsea is starting to contemplate a long-anticipated overhaul of its squad as it seeks a way to keep pace with the likes of Manchester City and Liverpool.
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherNew Zealand is holding a national day of remembrance today for the 50 people killed in the mosque shootings in Christchurch. Our colleague spent several days with one family of one man who died in the attack. [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.]On today’s episode:Background reading:Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.
Note: Our Sixth Annual 15-Second Vocabulary Video Challenge is underway. It will run until Feb. 18._________The word paltry has appeared in 88 articles on NYTimes.com in the past year, including on Jan. 17 in “Politics Looms Over Empty Seats as Saudi Arabia Faces Qatar in Asian Cup” by Tariq Panja:_________The Word of the Day and the quiz question have been provided by Vocabulary.com. Learn more and see usage examples across a range of subjects in the Vocabulary.com Dictionary.
SYDNEY — Sydney FC's top of the table A-League clash against Perth Glory this month has been moved away from the Sydney Cricket Ground after a furore over the 'dangerous' pitch at the iconic stadium during the weekend.Australia's players' union joined Melbourne Victory boss Kevin Muscat in slamming the SCG pitch after visiting midfielder Terry Antonis suffered a knee injury during a match against Sydney FC on Saturday night.Head of Leagues Greg O'Rourke said that although the Football Federation Australia (FFA) considered the surface to be "playable and safe", the April 18 fixture would be moved to Jubilee Oval "in the best interests of all stakeholders"."The SCG's (cricket) wicket block ... compromises the uniformity of the field for football in particular," he said in a joint statement with Sydney FC and the SCG. Antonis fell to the ground untouched on the edge of the cricket square during a 2-1 loss for his side in a clash between the last two Australian champions.Professional Footballers Australia (PFA) called for an independent investigation into how the match was allowed to go ahead given the 'deplorable state' of the pitch, which the body said posed a clear danger to player safety.The SCG is being used by soccer, rugby league and rugby union teams in addition to hosting its usual cricket and Australian Rules matches while the neighbouring Sydney Football Stadium (SFS) is re-built. Some 3,000 square metres of turf were relaid after the surface was torn up during a rugby union match last month.Sydney FC travel to city rivals Western Sydney Wanderers next weekend but are assured of still being in second place behind Perth, who are six points clear at the top of the A-League, going into the match the following week. "This is a hugely important fixture with first playing second and we want the narrative to be about the football," Sydney FC Chief Executive Danny Townsend said."This is a decision made in the viewing interest of members and supporters."The SCG has hosted test cricket since 1882 and was the venue for hundreds of rugby league and union matches before the SFS was completed in 1988.  (Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly in Mumbai; editing by Nick Mulvenney)
A dozen years ago, the University of Washington barred athletic coaches from having contact with anyone in the admissions department.With a move that now seems prescient, two new administrators supervising athletics sought to allay any concerns that coaches could put undue pressure on admissions personnel. The change also brought more oversight to athletics, in this case through a committee of senior faculty members, deans and other university representatives.The previous arrangement, said Philip Ballinger, an associate vice provost now overseeing admissions, “didn’t have sufficient transparency; it didn’t have enough eyes on it.”The leeway coaches get in recruiting has long been a point of discussion in higher education circles. But after federal investigators last week revealed a broad admissions cheating scandal, a number of colleges began asking hard questions about how they evaluate athletic applicants and oversee the chosen few whom coaches recommend for admission.In what prosecutors described as the biggest case of admissions fraud they had investigated, 50 people were accused in a scheme that involved paying bribes to coaches and to people who monitor admissions tests in order to fraudulently get the children of wealthy patrons into some of the nation’s most elite colleges.Some students were accepted as recruited athletes even though they did not play the sports described in their applications. They gained an advantage through the widespread practice of allocating a certain number of admissions spots to athletes who might not get in otherwise.This process has been followed for decades in the pursuit of competitive teams, which burnish a university’s reputation, inspire alumni loyalty and often help with fund-raising.Now, the fraud case has sent a thunderbolt through the higher education community.“Every college president in America called his athletic director the morning after that admissions fraud story broke and asked: How do we make sure this doesn’t happen at our school?” said Bill Martin, the athletic director at the University of Michigan from 2000 until his retirement in 2010. “And certain athletic directors were smart enough to call their presidents first to insist that they were going to start verifying the status of every admitted recruited athlete.”Indeed, at Yale University, where F.B.I. investigators say the longtime women’s soccer coach accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars to facilitate the admission of a recruit who did not actually play soccer, the university president, Peter Salovey, announced late last week that new oversight policies had already been put in place. The Yale athletic director will begin reviewing every proposed recruit’s credentials before admission, and recruited athletes who fail to make a team after they arrive will receive “close scrutiny,” a university statement said.A broad overhaul of athletic admissions systems in Division I, the highest level of N.C.A.A. competition and the level the colleges in the scheme compete in, has been overdue, according to several athletic administrators interviewed in recent days.Battles over blue-chip recruits in football and basketball already tend to be heavily scrutinized. In those upper echelon sports, if there is money changing hands, it is from coaches to recruits, not the other way around.But in the lower-profile sports like crew, volleyball, tennis and soccer — often called the Olympic sports — there has been more room for bribes and exploitation. And the most common route in such a fraud is to designate a phony athletic prospect as a “recruited walk-on.” In nearly every case of counterfeit athletic credentials cited in last week’s indictments, from Stanford to Texas to Yale, the prospective athlete appeared to be filling the nebulous role of recruited walk-on.Such applicants are not even assured a spot on the team. But they are often on a list of five to 20 athletes — it varies from sport to sport — that a coach is permitted to submit to the admissions department.The two daughters of the actress Lori Loughlin, who was charged in connection with the fraud case last week, were passed off as crew recruits despite never having competed in the sport, according to federal prosecutors.
SHAOXING, China — Wang Jianfeng is no ordinary barber. The 39-year-old from Shaoxing in eastern China specializes in sculpting images of famous faces on to the backs of his clients' heads. From the likes of former Chinese leader Mao Zedong to KFC's Colonel Sanders, to film stars such as Bruce Lee and Jean Reno, Wang can do them all.Inspired by a video he saw online of renowned U.S. hair artist Rob Ferrel, who creates portraits of celebrities on his clients' scalps, Wang wanted to do the same for Chinese men.Since completing his first hair sculpting piece in 2015, Wang has steadily gained a loyal following. His work has become so popular that clients have traveled from neighboring provinces and cities to get their hair sculpted by Wang."It's a form of art," Wang said. "It comes from life but it is also beyond life."Shi Like, a 30-year-old delivery worker, is one of Wang's regulars whose previous hair art designs of choice include one of Salvador Dali's distinctive mustache.When Reuters visited Wang's barbershop, Shi opted for Chairman Mao to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the People's Republic of China. "Serving the people is my motto," Shi beamed, quoting the former Chinese leader himself."I feel like the image of the renminbi note is sculpted on my head," Shi added, laughing to himself. Another of Wang's regulars, 28-year-old Zhai Rubin, was visibly delighted to be getting a cut of one of his idols - former England soccer player David Beckham.Having Beckham's image on his head "means that I can be fashionable as him", said Zhai.Wang spends two weeks each month on the road, giving lessons around the country to barbers and hair stylists at major high street salon chains on how to sculpt basic patterns on to clients' heads. The rest of the time, when not running his barbershop business, Wang does hair art for around 8 to 10 clients each month. Clients are charged 200 yuan ($30) for each piece of hair art which is the same price as a normal haircut at Wang's barbershop. 

NEW YORK — With more TV streaming services than ever before, from newcomers like Disney Plus to stalwarts like Netflix, consumers may feel the ideal viewing experience is finally at hand.Americans have, on average, three streaming video subscription services, according to a recent study of digital media trends by Deloitte. While some have dropped cable and its average bill of around $100 a month altogether, about 43% have both pay TV and streaming subscriptions.Yet patching together a variety of services to get just what one wants isn't always seamless. Families and individuals can still find themselves with service that doesn't perfectly suit their viewing habits. And those monthly subscriptions can add up fast."It doesn't make sense to pay for a bunch of content you have no interest in watching," said Bruce McClary, vice president of marketing for the National Foundation for Credit Counseling. "Finding a service that lets you scale your channel lineup based on your interests can also help you avoid paying for things you don't need."A little research on which services are best for you can help save big bucks.FOR FAMILIESDisney is making the biggest play for family viewership. The owner of Disney Channel, the Star Wars franchise and most recently Fox's entertainment business is betting its mix of family-friendly franchises and beloved animated classics, along with original programming, will make the Disney Plus service irresistible to families, even if they already subscribe to other services. The service, launching Nov. 12, will cost $7 a month initially.For some kids, there may be no substitute for watching Disney's "Frozen" over and over again. But other services that families might already subscribe to have a lot of family-friendly programming too. Amazon Prime ($119 per year or $13 per month for Prime loyalty program membership; Prime Video alone costs $9 a month), Hulu ($6 to $12 per month), and Netflix ($9 to $16 per month) all offer kids programming.Another choice for parents: HBO Now ($15 a month) is the home for the classic kids TV show "Sesame Street." And for spendthrifts, YouTube's free Kids channel offers an endless stream of kid-friendly fare, although quality varies widely.FOR MOVIE BUFFSMovie fans will soon have to work a bit harder to find movies to stream. As Disney, Fox, Universal and Warner Brothers and others offer their own streaming services, they will all eventually pull their content from Netflix. But niche services are there to fill the void.Classic movies can be difficult to find streaming. Movie fans suffered a loss when AT&T, which bought Time Warner last year, decided to discontinue FilmStruck, a streaming service that was a collaboration between Turner Classic Movies and the Criterion Collection. But a similar service called The Criterion Channel that offers 1,000 classic and contemporary films is stepping up to fill the void. It costs $11 a month or $99 for a year.Other movie-centric streaming services include Fandor ($6 per month or $50 per year) or Mubi ($11 per month). Both offer a curated selection of movies.Those on a budget can try Kanopy, a streaming service that works with public libraries and universities to offer library card holders streaming movies for free.FOR SPORTS FANS
To the Editor:“Media Tips and Gulf Money Fuel Campaign to Sabotage Qatar’s Cup” (Sports pages, Feb. 2) implies that the challenges facing Qatar as host of FIFA’s 2022 World Cup are because of the current Gulf crises. However, the challenges facing Qatar 2022 predate the crises.When Qatar was awarded the right in 2010 to host the World Cup, it was assumed it would usher in a period of bridge building, peace, prosperity and moderation in the Middle East. It turned out that it was anything but in the interests of the region. FIFA, which has been marred with accusations of corruption, found itself being used as a vehicle to advance the political agenda of Qatar.Qatar is using the tournament to whitewash its image of being a host to Islamist extremists. Yet it continues to host such Islamists as Yusuf al-Qaradawi, who is barred from the United States and Britain. He has openly endorsed suicide attacks against Israelis (later reversing himself) and continues to be an ideological inspiration for Qatar’s regime. What Qatar laws and ethics dictate are in total contradiction to the FIFA Code of Ethics.When FIFA decided to investigate allegations of corruption related to Qatar 2022, hopes were high that it would no longer tolerate corruption. Allegations of corruption that surfaced again in 2018 would tend to indicate that FIFA did an incomplete job.Trust in global soccer as a bridge to peace and accountability is at stake. Before Qatar is allowed to host FIFA World Cup 2022, it must first answer questions about corruption allegations and address issues of anti-Semitism and extremism. If 2022 comes and Qatar does indeed host the World Cup without changing, the message the world is giving to Muslim and Arab youth is that extremism is acceptable. Qatar should also not be allowed to hide behind the current Gulf crises to avoid answering questions related to FIFA World Cup 2022.Ghanem NuseibehLondonThe writer is the founder of Cornerstone Global Associates, which published a report critical of holding the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. 
COPENHAGEN — The squats and leg lifts were harder than they looked, and after a few sets, Alfonso Aguirre Rodriguez placed his hands on his knees and attempted to compose himself.In November, Aguirre, a 24-year-old professional video game player from Spain, joined the five-man roster of Origen, a League of Legends team that competes in the game’s top European league. The players — all signed in late fall — were told at the time that the team might be run a bit differently from what they were accustomed to. Now here they were, five young men who make their living sitting almost completely still in front of desktop computers, sweating through an hourlong workout in a cramped gym.“I think I’m going to puke my oatmeal,” said Aguirre, who is known in the gaming community as Mithy. “I’m dying.”Some years ago, traditional sports leagues were revolutionized by young analysts wielding computers. The way things had always been done, it turned out, was not always the best way to do things. Now echoes of that transformation have arrived in the growing world of professional e-sports, where gamers are being shepherded toward a new frontier, oddly, by the old, corporeal wisdom of traditional sports.The debate about whether competitive gamers can be considered athletes may never end. In the meantime, though, gamers are increasingly acting like them.Origen is one of two teams owned by Rfrsh Entertainment, an e-sports company based in Copenhagen. Two years ago, the organization hired Kasper Hvidt, a former captain of Denmark’s national handball team, to be its sporting director. Hvidt, 43, had no previous exposure to gaming. But that was the point.E-sports in recent years have crept into the mainstream, attracting new fans, new sponsors and new investment. The top professionals now make six-figure salaries and earn even more with endorsements and prize money. And yet, Hvidt observed, their approach to performance remained amateurish.Eating right, sleeping right, exercising, cleaning up for sponsors — these ideas have undergirded traditional sports for generations. In e-sports, they are regarded as almost radical.“They don’t look at themselves as physical human beings,” said Hvidt, who won the European handball championship with Denmark in 2008.“It’s common sense, in a way. But with them it was not.”Rfrsh has a validating narrative under its belt. The company’s other team, Astralis, which competes internationally in the first-person shooter game Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, had gone almost a year without winning a tournament when Hvidt joined the organization in mid-2017. In 2018, the team earned $3.7 million in prize money while putting together one of the most dominant years ever by any team in any e-sports game.And so Origen this year has set off on the same journey of athletic self-improvement. As recently as last year, the players’ typical day might have been a sedentary extravaganza of sugary energy drinks, fast food and unresolved psychic tension. Now, their days are interposed with protein smoothies, yoga mats and slow-paced breathing exercises.The effects of those changes, the team said, have been plain to see: After starting the current season with a 1-4 record, Origen went on a tear, winning 11 of its final 13 matches, finishing the regular season in second place and securing a first-round bye for the playoffs, which began Friday.“These are little things,” Fabian Broich, Origen’s assistant coach, said. “But they add up, and over the long term you have a more emotionally stable team and a more focused team.”At Rfrsh, Hvidt has assembled a performance team — a physical trainer, a sports psychologist, a massage therapist, a medical doctor and a nutritionist — and constructed a lifestyle plan for the players that combines scientific research, old-school sports wisdom and simple common sense. Broich, 28, a former professional soccer player from Germany, acts as a liaison between the management team and the players, implementing the principles on the ground.
LOS ANGELES — A soccer fan says in a lawsuit that the California Department of Motor Vehicles violated his First Amendment rights by rejecting a personalized license plate he said would celebrate his favorite team, but which the DMV determined might be deemed offensive.Jon Kotler applied for a plate that would read "COYW," an acronym of the slogan "Come on You Whites" used by supporters of London-based Fulham Football Club, according to the federal lawsuit filed in Los Angeles on Tuesday. Fulham players wear white jerseys.In denying the proposed plate, the DMV said the abbreviation could "have racial overtones" and carry "connotations offensive to good taste and decency," according to the court filing.The department's rejection of the application violated his right to freedom of speech, said Kotler, a lawyer and constitutional scholar at the University of Southern California Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism.The Department of Motor Vehicles said Tuesday that it does not comment on pending lawsuits.Kotler's suit asks the court to declare the Department of Motor Vehicles' criteria for personalized license plates unconstitutional. He also wants the department to pay his court costs."You can't allow bureaucrats to make decisions that are fundamental to what it means to be an American, and our free speech is one of those things," Kotler said in a news release. "When the government starts to infringe on our rights, that's when the individual citizen must speak up."In its rejection letter to Kotler, the Department of Motor Vehicles acknowledged the difficulties in balancing "an individual's constitutional right to free speech and expression while protecting the sensibilities of all segments of our population."In a 1973 case, the California Court of Appeals upheld the Department of Motor Vehicles' standard of "good taste and decency" in rejecting a plaintiff's claim that his free speech was violated when the department rejected his requested license plate, "EZ LAY."Constitutional scholar David L. Hudson said courts are often split in cases claiming censorship over personalized plates."It appears in this case that the government has engaged in regrettable censorship of Mr. Kotler's speech," said Hudson, who teaches at Tennessee's Belmont University and is a fellow at the Freedom Forum Institute. "To me courts should be very sensitive to viewpoint discrimination and should err on the side of protecting the individual's speech from government censorship."Kotler is being represented pro bono by the libertarian-leaning nonprofit Pacific Legal Foundation. The group criticized the Department of Motor Vehicles' "attempt to make itself the speech police" in a statement announcing the lawsuit."You can call Jon a sports fan or a First Amendment expert, but the DMV's misguided efforts to regulate license plates have misbranded Jon as a racist," the foundation said.___
WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Eric Swalwell said on Monday he would seek the Democratic nomination for president, joining a crowded field seeking to take on Republican Donald Trump in the 2020 election.Swalwell, a third-term congressman from a California district south of San Francisco, made the announcement during a taping of CBS's "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert," which airs later on Monday. The program tweeted a clip of Swalwell saying he was running for president.Swalwell said tackling student debt and gun violence were among the reasons he jumped into the Democratic primary race."None of that is going to change until we get a leader who is willing to go big on the issues we take on, be bold in the solutions we offer, and do good in the way that we govern. I'm ready to solve these problems. I'm running for president," Swalwell said.Swalwell, 38, is now among the youngest candidates vying for the 2020 Democratic nomination, along with Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and Representative Tulsi Gabbard from Hawaii, both of whom are 37. Thirty-five is the minimum age to serve as U.S. president.Swalwell cited his work on the House Intelligence Committee and his founding of Future Forum, a group of more than 25 Democratic lawmakers that visits universities and community colleges to discuss issues important to millennial voters like student loan debt and climate change, among the reasons he would be a qualified White House candidate.In his first House campaign, Swalwell defeated a Democratic incumbent who had been in office since 1973, seven years before Swalwell was born.Since joining Congress, Swalwell has advocated for raising the cap on the portion of salary that is subject to the Social Security payroll tax. He has also proposed a "mobile Congress" that would allow lawmakers to cast votes remotely from their districts.Swalwell grew up in Iowa and California. He attended Campbell University in North Carolina on a soccer scholarship for two years before transferring to the University of Maryland, where he earned his bachelor's and law degrees.Other House lawmakers in the Democratic race include Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio, who announced his bid last week. Former Representative Beto O'Rourke from Texas is also a contender.U.S. senators vying for the Democratic presidential nomination include Kamala Harris of California, Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. (Reporting by Amanda Becker, Makini Brice and Eric Beech; Editing by David Alexander)
BOSTON — A tennis coach with a country club membership and a second home on Cape Cod. An assistant teacher at a Houston public high school. A college administrator whose reputation as a stickler for the rules belied what prosecutors say was a penchant for secretly taking bribes to facilitate students’ admission.All together, a dozen people, including six coaches, pleaded not guilty in federal court in Boston on Monday in the college admissions scandal that has ensnared Hollywood celebrities and forced a reckoning at elite colleges where prosecutors say students were admitted on the basis of falsified test scores and athletic credentials.Those who appeared in court showcased the wide range of people who prosecutors believe were caught up in the scheme. The man who connected them all was William Singer, a college admissions consultant known as Rick who has pleaded guilty to helping the children of clients cheat on college admissions exams and to facilitating bribes.So far, the prosecutors have revealed little beyond what is in the charging documents, leaving several mysteries. The United States attorney’s office has said that the investigation is continuing, leading to speculation that more parents or coaches could be charged.At a news conference on March 12, Andrew E. Lelling, the United States attorney for the District of Massachusetts, said that one client of Mr. Singer’s had paid $6.5 million to facilitate their child’s admission to college — many times more than what any of the other parents have been accused of paying. This payment is not mentioned in any of the documents, and the person who paid this sum has not been revealed. A spokeswoman for the attorney’s office would not identify the family or the school, but said it was paid to get a child into college through the athletic recruiting scheme.Also on Monday, the federal Department of Education sent letters to the eight colleges where coaches are alleged to have taken bribes, saying that it was opening an investigation of its own, according to a department official with knowledge of the investigation.The letter said that the investigation, first reported by Politico, would examine, among other things, whether the colleges violated any laws or regulations governing federal financial aid programs. It asked the colleges for information about their admissions policies, as well as the names, Social Security numbers and academic transcripts of students who were allegedly admitted as part of the scheme.Those who appeared in court in Boston on Monday, all of whom have been indicted on one count of racketeering conspiracy, are each accused of participating in one or both aspects of the scam.At one end of the spectrum of those charged was Gordon Ernst, the former head tennis coach at Georgetown University, who has been accused of taking $2.7 million in bribes from Mr. Singer to designate at least 12 applicants as recruits to the tennis team. Prosecutors are seeking forfeiture of Mr. Ernst’s country club membership and a second home on Cape Cod, among other assets. Mr. Ernst appeared in court on Monday flanked by two prominent defense lawyers.At the other end was Lisa Williams, an assistant teacher at a Houston high school known as Niki who prosecutors say took bribes — the indictment cites one in the amount of $5,000 — in exchange for allowing cheating on the college entrance exams. The judge noted that Ms. Williams, who entered her plea in a voice barely above a whisper, had qualified for a court-appointed lawyer.In a sign of the wide interest the case has generated, television cameras and photographers crowded the sidewalk outside the courthouse an hour before the hearing. Access to the courtroom was limited, with some journalists confined to a spillover room. Inside the courtroom, the defendants, their lawyers and family members, and a few members of the public, filled the benches on the left and in the center, while the benches on the right were packed with reporters.Most of the defendants appeared in suits, but one charged in connection with test cheating, Igor Dvorskiy, the director of a private school in Los Angeles, was dressed informally, in a gray sweater.Magistrate Judge M. Page Kelley conducted the hearing with the efficiency of an assembly line. She brought the defendants up three at a time to be arraigned. Mr. Ernst came first, and in addressing him about his rights and the consequences of violating the conditions of his release, Judge Kelley instructed the others to listen carefully so that she did not have to repeat herself.All of the defendants are out on bail, of varying amounts. Those who also appeared on Monday were Donna Heinel, the former senior associate athletic director at the University of Southern California; Laura Janke and Ali Khosroshahin, former University of Southern California soccer coaches; William Ferguson, the former women’s volleyball coach at Wake Forest University; Jorge Salcedo, the former head coach of men’s soccer at the University of California at Los Angeles; and Jovan Vavic, the former U.S.C. water polo coach.Others included Steven Masera, the accountant and chief financial officer of Mr. Singer’s company and a related nonprofit through which prosecutors say he funneled the bribes; Mikaela Sanford, an employee of Mr. Singer’s who is accused of taking online classes in place of some students so that they could submit the grades she earned as part of their college applications; and Martin Fox, the president of a private tennis academy in Houston, whom prosecutors say Mr. Singer paid for helping to arrange some of the bribes.
FIFA is pressing ahead with plans to expand the 2022 World Cup despite the concerns of some officials in the host nation, Qatar, whose support the project requires. The move, a politically perilous project but one heavily backed by FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, would grow soccer’s biggest championship to 48 teams ahead of schedule and require navigating some treacherous regional rivalries.Under the plan currently being considered, most matches in the 2022 tournament would still be held in Qatar — which won the rights to a 32-team event and continues to prepare for one — but other games would take place in Kuwait and Oman as part of a broader Middle Eastern World Cup. Infantino’s expansion would not send games to countries that are currently leading a political and economic blockade of Qatar, like the United Arab Emirates.Infantino, elected FIFA president in 2016 and seeking re-election to a four-year term in June, has been among the biggest proponents of an expanded World Cup that, through increased places for FIFA’s member associations and increased sponsorship revenues, could prove popular among countries that rarely get to compete in the tournament.A final call on the idea was expected to be made next week when FIFA’s governing council meets in Miami, but Infantino has decided to move the final decision to FIFA’s annual Congress in June, where he is standing unopposed for re-election.Should Qatar agree to the change — its consent is required — and should logistical challenges be overcome, Infantino would most likely seek the approval of FIFA’s 211 member federations, a grouping long known for rubber-stamping policies favored by the president. He had said previously that the decision would be taken up by the smaller FIFA Council, which governs the sport worldwide.FIFA and Qatar’s World Cup organizers did not comment on the matter.Privately though, some senior members of the organizing committee who have been working on the event since Qatar controversially secured it a decade ago are opposed to sharing the competition and frustrated that it may yet happen. Qatar’s final position on the matter will be defined by its rulers, who may see political advantage in agreeing to include specific neighbors.While Infantino has suggested that sharing games with Qatar’s neighbors would help heal rifts in the region, a FIFA-led group conducting a feasibility study has concluded that it would be impractical to include the blockading countries, which also include Bahrain, in hosting plans, leaving Oman and Kuwait as favored choices. Infantino recently visited both countries, where he discussed the idea, according to people with knowledge of the talks.Infantino has pushed an expansion of the World Cup at every opportunity in recent years, despite setbacks along the way. He pulled the issue from the agenda at last year’s FIFA Congress amid a backlash from various stakeholders.But Qatar’s posture — it has not publicly rejected an expanded World Cup, even as logistics almost certainly require bringing in partners — has emboldened Infantino to forge ahead to secure the expanded format, which has been adopted for the 2026 World Cup and beyond. Qatar 2022 organizers have said since last summer that they will reserve judgment on a 48-team tournament until a comprehensive study has been carried out.Infantino has vacillated when asked about the intensity of his push for a 48-team World Cup, veering between sporting justifications that center on growing interest in the sport and politically hopeful ones that suggest it could ease political tensions in the region.“There are tensions in this particular region, and it’s up to their respective leaders to deal with that, but maybe it’s easier to talk about a joint football project than more complicated things,” Infantino said in January. “If it can help all the people in the Gulf and all the countries in the world develop football and bring a positive message to the world about football, then you should give it a try.”Kuwait and Oman have remained largely neutral during the Gulf crisis, which has been characterized by bitterness and often petty behavior between opposing countries. That enmity was laid bare at the recently completed Asian Cup, where Qatar routed host United Arab Emirates in a final that was played in a poisonous atmosphere and will be remembered for the scores of shoes and other types of footwear that rained down from the bleachers toward Qatar’s players as they celebrated goals in a 4-0 victory. With flights blocked between the countries, Qatari players traveled to the tournament via Oman, while its fans were largely barred from attending.The travel restrictions are also a concern for World Cup organizers who had banked on thousands of supporters traveling to the event from Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E.There are several logistical hurdles to clear for an expanded tournament. FIFA officials have ruled that Qatar, smaller in size than Connecticut, won’t be able to absorb the additional games, and now must decide if neighboring countries possess infrastructure that meets its exacting demands.
Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. Also, we’re following breaking news about the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines jet, which killed the more than 150 people aboard. Boeing identified the plane as a 737 MAX 8, the same model that crashed in October in Indonesia. 1. 47 months.The sentence for Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, struck many as lenient, compared with the 19 to 24 years recommended under sentencing guidelines. Mr. Manafort, above in 2017, had perpetrated a decade-long, multimillion-dollar fraud scheme, but Judge T.S. Ellis said he lived “an otherwise blameless life.”This week, a judge in federal court in Washington will sentence Mr. Manafort on two conspiracy charges, which carry a maximum penalty of five years each. Michael Flynn, Mr. Trump’s former national security adviser, will also be sentenced this week.And Michael Cohen, the president’s former fixer and personal lawyer, sued the Trump Organization for refusing to pay him $1.9 million in legal costs. We also obtained six checks from Mr. Trump to Mr. Cohen that show how the president tried to prevent alleged sexual misconduct from going public.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. House Democrats tried to put to rest an uproar over Representative Ilhan Omar’s remarks, seen by some as anti-Semitic, with a bill condemning hate.The scandal overshadowed the passing of a comprehensive reform bill — dismantling voting barriers, limiting money in politics and imposing stricter ethics rules on federal officials. Above, Ms. Omar at a news conference for the reform bill with Speaker Nancy Pelosi.In last week’s will-they-or-won’t-they 2020 developments: John Hickenlooper, a two-time Colorado governor, is running for president. Former Vice President Joe Biden is 95 percent sure he is, too. The leading Democratic candidates have largely broken with consensus-driven politics and embraced progressive ideas. Here’s what that means for moderates.Check our candidate tracker for updates on the crowded presidential field.____3. The southern border is experiencing a “humanitarian catastrophe,” according to Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary.She urged Congress to support the president’s border wall, although it was not clear how that would solve the humanitarian crisis. Her testimony came as the number of migrants crossing the border without authorization reached an 11-year high in February. Above, migrants in Penitas, Tex., turning themselves in to Border Patrol agents in February.
The spectacle of Julian Assange, bearded and haggard, resisting arrest while London police officers dragged him through the street, punctuated the end of seven confounding years inside the Ecuadorean Embassy, where he lived with his cat in a small corner room as the world’s most famous self-proclaimed political refugee.Mr. Assange, 47, has long fashioned himself as a crusader for revealing secrets. The internet group he founded, WikiLeaks, published caches of classified American government communications, as well as emails hacked by Russian intelligence clearly intended to damage the presidential candidacy of Hillary Clinton.Though arrested Thursday morning by the British for skipping bail, Mr. Assange was immediately charged in the United States for conspiracy to hack a government computer.To supporters, Mr. Assange was a martyr and champion of free speech. To the United States government, he was a pariah and a  lackey of the Kremlin. But it was the hardened opinion of Ecuador’s government that perhaps mattered most.He had become an unwanted houseguest.At the tiny red-brick embassy, he continued to run his internet group, conducted news conferences before hundreds of fawning admirers from a balcony, rode his skateboard in the halls, and played host to a parade of visitors, including Lady Gaga and Pamela Anderson, a rumored lover who brought vegan sandwiches.On Thursday, Ms. Anderson sent out a batch of Twitter messages attacking the arrest as a “vile injustice” and called Britain and the United States “devils and liars and thieves.”In interviews with The New York Times in 2016, as part of a long look at his ties to Russia, Mr. Assange denied any link to Russian intelligence, in particular regarding the leaked Democratic emails. Mrs. Clinton and the Democrats were “whipping up a neo-McCarthyist hysteria about Russia,” he said. There is “no concrete evidence” that what WikiLeaks publishes comes from intelligence agencies, he said, even as he indicated that he would happily accept such material.Small as they were, Mr. Assange’s living quarters at the embassy, close to the lavish self-indulgence of Harrods, the famous department store, did not cramp his desire to remain in the limelight.Mr. Assange had an office equipped with a bed, sunlamp, phone, computer, kitchenette, shower, treadmill and bookshelves. Three years ago, one person familiar with the setup called it “a gas station with two attendants.”Vaughan Smith, who had been a longtime supporter of Mr. Assange and helped put up his bail money, said that “Julian’s a big bloke, with big bones, and he fills the room physically and intellectually.”“It’s a tiny embassy with a tiny balcony,” he added, “small, hot and with not great air flow, and it must be jolly difficult for everyone there.”But from there, Mr. Assange for years held court for admirers and famous curiosity seekers, among them the soccer star Eric Cantona, and Nigel Farage, the pro-Brexit radio host and former head of U.K. Independence Party.Still, Mr. Assange’s isolation was wearing on him, a friend said on Thursday, especially the long, lonely weekends in an essentially empty embassy he could not leave.Even his friends have described him as difficult, a narcissist with an outsized view of his importance and a disinterest in mundane matters like personal hygiene.
Note: Students 13 and older are invited to comment here. Adults should post their comments elsewhere on NYTimes.com.On Tuesday, federal prosecutors charged 50 people in a brazen scheme to buy spots in the freshman classes at Yale, Stanford and other big name schools. Have you heard about the scandal?Watch the one-minute video above to learn more about the indictment. What is your reaction to what you know so far?In “College Admissions Scandal: Actresses, Business Leaders and Other Wealthy Parents Charged,” Jennifer Medina, Katie Benner and Kate Taylor write:Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— What is your reaction to the college admissions cheating scandal? What details in the article did you find the most shocking and why? Are you surprised that something like this happened in the United States? Why or why not?— Who do you think should be held responsible for these crimes and how so?— The authors write: “The charges also underscored how college admissions have become so cutthroat and competitive that some have sought to break the rules.” Do you agree? What do you think this case tells us about the college admissions process today?— In a recent Opinion column, Frank Bruni argues that what these parents did is not all that different from the lengths to which many wealthy families will go to secure college admission for their children:What is your reaction to Mr. Bruni’s claim? Do you think the college admissions process is rigged to favor the wealthy? Do you think it is fair? Why or why not?— What message does this scandal send to high school students who intend to go to college? What is your biggest takeaway from it?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.
PARIS/KIEV — Flanked by rock musicians wearing yellow overalls and black t-shirts with skulls on them, Ukraine's President Petro Poroshenko pumped his fist, danced to the music and waved to supporters outside a soccer stadium in Kiev on Sunday.Standing on a stage filled with young people, he sent a message to his absent challenger, the comedian Volodymyr Zelenskiy, ahead of a presidential election run-off on April 21. "I am pleased that so many young people are with us today. Volodymyr Oleksandrovych, you hear the voice of Kiev, the voice of Ukraine, its youth. The youth is with us. The youth is the driving force of our state," he said on Sunday. Poroshenko has rebooted his campaign after Zelenskiy won nearly twice as many votes as him in the first round of the election on March 31, reaching out especially to younger voters disillusioned with corruption and the slow pace of change.The president apologized for past mistakes like installing business cronies to high office, promised to be more transparent in communicating decisions and pledged to bring more young people onto his staff if voters gave him another chance.At stake is the leadership of a country on the frontline of the West's standoff with Russia following the 2014 annexation of Crimea and the outbreak of a Kremlin-backed insurgency in eastern Ukraine that has killed 13,000 people.If elected, Zelenskiy has promised to keep Ukraine on a pro-Western course, pursue reforms and tackle corruption. Investors view him as something of an unknown quantity but his team has tried to assure them he will keep the country's loan program with the International Monetary Fund on track.In an interview with Reuters on Friday, Poroshenko said his strategy for the first round was reminding Ukrainians to be proud of their country and not listen to Russian depictions of its neighbor as a failed state.Doing so allowed him to trumpet achievements like securing visa-free travel for Ukrainians to European Union countries, strengthening the army and helping establish a national Orthodox church independent from the Russian clergy.But for the second round, he has struck a more contrite tone with voters while still painting Zelenskiy as a buffoonish populist."First of all, some people are disappointed. And we should open their heart, we should knock on their doors, we should deliver the information that 'look, we hear what you mean. We understand what you need,'" Poroshenko said.    "Don't believe populists, don't believe in the simple decision to the complicated question. May I remind you, we are the country in a state of war," he said onboard his plane between whistle-stop visits to Berlin and Paris.Poroshenko has also sought to shore up his reformist credentials. He rolled out a long-awaited special court to try corruption cases and fired a regional governor accused of incompetence.Asked if he had more surprises up his sleeve before the second round, Poroshenko replied: "You consider launching an anti-corruption court as a surprise? I think this is a part of my program."The answer to your question would be definitely 'yes'. I have some surprise for the last week," he said, declining to specify. "Otherwise it wouldn't be a surprise."
REYKJAVIK, Iceland — When it comes to print advertising, most high-end watch manufacturers go for the traditional: a product close-up and maybe a posed scene of gift-giving or sporting skill.Not JS Watch Company.One of its ’40s-style photo ads has its 69-year-old master watchmaker and charismatic frontman, Gilbert O. Gudjonsson, peering through a watchmaker’s eyepiece while his three business colleagues, clad in matching rubber swim caps, gawk at a statuesque bathing beauty beside a swimming pool.In another, the colleagues are aviation mechanics, stunned by an attractive flight attendant. Mr. Gudjonsson? He’s too busy inspecting a map to notice.Why would an atelier that has earned critical acclaim for its mechanical timepieces, made of Swiss movements and German parts, have an ad campaign that is the equivalent of an exaggerated stage wink?It’s because Mr. Gudjonsson and his colleagues — Grimkell Sigurthorsson, Sigurdur Gilbertsson and Julius Heidarsson — believe in watchmaking with a sense of humor.“Yes, we are watchmakers, but we are always having fun here,” said Mr. Gudjonsson, who once danced through Reykjavik dressed as an astronaut to promote Arc-Tic Iceland, a line of waterproof quartz watches created by the atelier.The business occupies a space on Laugavegur, a popular Reykjavik shopping street where tourists browse fisherman’s sweaters and sample grilled puffin. Visitors will often find Mr. Gudjonsson behind a door labeled “Probably the world’s smallest watch manufacturer,” in a narrow showroom decorated with vintage wall clocks.He has been fixing, selling or assembling watches since he was 16. “I never have to be in an office or use a computer — and I never want to,” he said.Occupying just 25 square meters, or 270 square feet, the showroom has a tiny work area tucked at the rear, so it could well be among the world’s smallest ateliers. In any case, some big names — including Tom Cruise, Ben Stiller and Yoko Ono — own its mechanical timepieces.Even the Dalai Lama has one. “He loves watches; he collects them,” Mr. Gudjonsson said. The local chapter of Friends of Tibet presented the watch during the Buddhist leader’s 2009 visit to Iceland. “When they gave it to him, he said watches are his only weakness.”Each year, the atelier produces about 500 watches. Mr. Gudjonsson assembles them in the work space, often with the help of Mr. Gilbertsson, his son — although Mr. Gilbertsson says he frequently seeks refuge from the atelier’s festive atmosphere at a second JS workshop nearby.The JS line has 14 collections, each with an Icelandic theme. One added last year was a 300-piece limited edition celebrating the Icelandic soccer team’s first FIFA World Cup spot and the smallest country by population ever to qualify for competition. (The team was eliminated after a loss to Croatia.)Some watch blogs and reviews criticized the design as taking the soccer theme too far — with a soccer ball engraved on the crown and a red 12 on the dial as a nod to fans, collectively considered the team’s 12th member — and the company for touting a niche timepiece as a dress watch at a luxury price of 2,418 euros ($2,748).“But not everyone is a collector,” Jason Swire, author of “Timely Advice” and a writer for Ablogtowatch.com, wrote in an email. (Mr. Swire said he used news releases to critique the watch.) “A lot of consumers prefer to own a single ‘nice’ watch and wear it for all occasions, and for that demographic a half-sporty, half-dressy watch makes a lot of sense.”
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — This year’s Miami Open is about 20 miles north of its previous home on Key Biscayne, but the tournament’s cultural epicenter is unmoved. It’s still somewhere thousands of miles to the south.Because there is no tournament of its caliber in Mexico, the Caribbean, or Central and South America, the Miami Open has developed into the de facto Latin American Slam, drawing fans from the region and its diasporas, transforming this Florida fixture into a virtual homecoming for Latino players.“It’s really nice to have the support,” said Leonardo Mayer, an Argentine. “It’s almost like playing in Buenos Aires.”The top South American player, Juan Martín del Potro of Argentina, missed this year’s tournament because of a knee injury, but fans had to change only one letter in their customary cheer for him in order to root for his compatriot Federico Delbonis, who took a set off top-ranked Novak Djokovic on Sunday. Instead of “Olé, olé, olé, olé! Delpo, Delpo!” they chanted, “Delbo, Delbo!”Even away from the court, the Miami area’s large Latino population affects the experience of playing in the tournament. Delbonis said he appreciated being able to buy yerba mate leaves in Miami to make his favorite beverage; for most events, he has to travel with his own supply.“Every time I come here I feel like I want to be here, I want to live here,” he said. “When I got to the court today, I heard a lot of Argentinians speaking Spanish, cheering in Spanish, and you feel that energy they give you. They give you confidence, and you feel it inside. It’s good for your game to be more happy on court.”Monica Puig, who in 2016 won Puerto Rico’s first Olympic gold medal, had vocal support from many Puerto Rican fans in her first-round match on Wednesday, when she lost to Wang Xiyu. She said regretted not being able to play more matches throughout the season in front of that crowd, which included her father.“Having that Latin American feel here, just buzzing all over the place, it’s really special,” said Puig, the only Latin American woman ranked in the top 100 in singles.Even fans from Latin American countries that are not represented among the players make their presence felt. After Fabio Fognini of Italy defeated Guido Andreozzi of Argentina on Friday, a woman unfurled a large Paraguayan flag.Latin American reporters travel to the Miami Open in droves, with 24 representatives of Argentine news media leading this year’s international contingent, according to the tournament.Though Latin American fans initially embraced the tournament organically, the event has begun marketing to them directly, including digital advertising in South America in both Spanish and Portuguese, as well as on Spanish-language websites in South Florida. (While Latin food and music can be found on the grounds, all the signs at the Miami Open are in English.)Players from the United States have to adjust to this rare home tournament where the crowds may not tip in their favor. Pablo Cuevas of Uruguay recalled being stunned in 2011 when fans chanted his country’s name as he upset Andy Roddick, the defending champion and American star, on the stadium court of Key Biscayne.In one of the last matches played at the old venue in 2018, the American John Isner, the eventual champion, had little support when he met del Potro in the semifinals.“The fans were great, but it was not 50-50,” Isner said, smiling. “There were a lot of Argentinian flags, that country loves their sport, loves their soccer and their tennis. To see all the flags in the crowd, it was a very, very cool atmosphere.”Many other non-Latin American players similarly relish the passionate crowds.
DOHA/LONDON — Qatar filed lawsuits on Monday against three banks, accusing them of causing billions of dollars of damage to its economy by what it called overseas currency manipulation in the wake of an Arab boycott against Qatar in 2017.The cases, filed in London and New York, name Luxembourg-based Banque Havilland, the United Arab Emirates' First Abu Dhabi Bank (FAB) and Saudi Arabia's Samba Bank, according to filings seen by Reuters and a statement from Qatar's government communications office.First Abu Dhabi Bank declined to comment, while Banque Havilland and Samba Bank did not immediately respond to requests for comment.In the case, Qatar alleges Banque Havilland devised a plan to weaken the country's riyal currency on key composite indices by submitting thousands of "fictitious and depreciated" quotes, according to the court filings."But the quotes were phoney, as FAB, Samba Bank, and others repeatedly refused to transact with counterparties at the prices they were quoting in public," the filings stated. The lawsuits are the latest fallout in a protracted Gulf row that began in 2017 when Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt imposed an economic boycott on Qatar in 2017, accusing it of supporting Islamist militants and Iran.Qatar, a small Gulf state but major gas exporter, denies the charges and says the boycott is an attempt to impinge on its sovereignty.The currency manipulation was intended to "deplete Qatar's financial reserves so that it would be unable to complete its preparations to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup games, and would be forced to share the games with Saudi Arabia or the UAE," the filings stated. UAE sports chief Mohammed Khalfan al-Romaithi has said his country and other Gulf states could co-host an expanded World Cup 2022, a measure global soccer body FIFA is expected to vote on in June but which Qatar holds the final decision over. Qatar liquidated nearly $3 billion in U.S. treasury investments and drew down over $40 billion in foreign reserves after the alleged manipulation in a bid to support its currency, the filings stated.With more than $300 billion in central bank reserves and sovereign wealth fund assets, bankers say Qatar has sufficient financial firepower to block attacks on its currency.Its central bank began a probe into the alleged manipulation in late 2017 after it said unidentified banks were looking to attack the riyal by trading it between themselves offshore at artificially weak levels - to create an illusion Qatar's economy was crumbling."Qatar seeks to hold FAB, Samba Bank, and the unknown John Doe Defendants who conspired with them liable for the billions of dollars in damages that they have caused to Qatar, plus punitive damages and statutory interest," the filings stated.They added elsewhere that Qatar also sought to hold Banque Havilland similarly responsible. (Reporting by Eric Knecht and Dmitry Zhdannikov; Additional reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Dale Hudson and Mark Potter)
The Swiss watch brand Hublot, which has partnered with the likes of the FIFA World Cup and the Ferrari Formula One team, has announced that it will continue its role as official timekeeper of the Cricket World Cup, with the 2019 competition scheduled to start May 30.The event is sponsored by the International Cricket Council and held every four years — this year in England and Wales.Hublot’s previous high-profile sporting affiliations have put it in competition with more established watch brands, such as Rolex, Omega and Audemars Piguet, each of which has successfully used sports to raise brand awareness. Hublot was founded in 1980 and has been owned by LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton since 2008.Ricardo Guadalupe, Hublot’s chief executive, said that Hublot’s strategy was to invest in sports that have a global footprint and little, if any, association with other Swiss watch brands. In the past, Audemars Piguet had worked with Sachin Tendulkar and Ulysse Nardin with Yuvraj Singh, both Indian cricketers, but Hublot is the first to partner with the organizing council.“Cricket is virgin territory,” Mr. Guadalupe said in an interview during the announcement of the partnership at the brand’s Bond Street boutique in London.Mr. Guadalupe said cricket also would give Hublot a route to market in targeted regions. “Cricket is huge in India,” he said. “There is potential to grow heavily in India and with Indians, who buy all over the world.”Cricket is India’s most popular sport. The national broadcaster Star India reported that its television coverage of the 2015 Cricket World Cup, also sponsored by Hublot, was watched by more than 600 million people in the country. (The 2019 Super Bowl had a domestic audience of 98.2 million, according to the research firm Nielsen.)“We’ve had double-digit growth in India since we got involved in cricket,” Mr. Guadalupe said, adding that this summer Hublot plans to open its first stand-alone boutique in Mumbai, India’s financial center and largest city, and is working on one in New Delhi.Mr. Guadalupe declined to disclose the cost of the I.C.C. partnership, but said that it was in the “single millions” of dollars and much less costly than Hublot’s soccer affiliations.As part of the cricket deal, Hublot had announced a 100-piece limited-edition watch, a version of its 45-millimeter Classic Fusion Chronograph that is scheduled for release on March 23. (Mr. Guadalupe said the 2,018-piece limited-edition connected watch that Hublot made for the 2018 World Cup sold out in four weeks.)Mr. Guadalupe also said that some top Hublot customers would be given a special experience at the Cricket World Cup, but that the reason for the partnership was to “build and shape the consumer of tomorrow.”
The Cannes Film Festival on Thursday unveiled a set of movies in contention for this year’s Palme d’Or. The American director Terrence Malick — who won in 2011 for “The Tree of Life” — is back with “A Hidden Life,” set during World War II. Films by Pedro Almodóvar of Spain and Ken Loach of Britain are also in the running.Quentin Tarantino’s “Once Upon a Time in Hollywood” could join the lineup if it’s completed in time, said the festival’s artistic director, Thierry Frémaux, at a news conference in Paris. Mr. Frémaux said he had seen most of it, and it was “magnificent.”The festival opens on May 14 with Jim Jarmusch’s zombie movie “The Dead Don’t Die” and ends on May 25. There are 19 movies in the race so far, though Mr. Frémaux said there were likely to be additions.“You will see women directors, first films, Americans, zombies, genetic manipulations,” Mr. Frémaux said, adding that the titles in the competition would also feature “painters, singers, cops, parasites, violent mafiosos.”Screening out of the official competition is “Rocketman,” a biopic directed by Dexter Fletcher, whose world premiere will bring the superstar singer-songwriter Elton John to the Cannes red carpet.Another out-of-competition title is the documentary “Diego Maradona,” focusing on the Argentine soccer player and directed by Asif Kapadia, whose Amy Winehouse documentary drew critical acclaim.This year’s lineup is a mix of Cannes veterans — Marco Bellocchio of Italy, Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne of Belgium — and first-timers to the competition, such as all four of the female directors selected: Jessica Hausner, Céline Sciamma, Mati Diop and Justine Triet.[The directors Barry Jenkins and Claire Denis on filmmaking and rising stars like Mati Diop.] Thomas Sotinel, a film critic for the French newspaper Le Monde, said in a telphone interview that he saw their inclusion as a positive step in Cannes’ efforts to achieve a gender balance.“Four out of 19 is a little timid, statistically speaking, but it’s one more than last year, so there’s progress,” he said, noting that the four were all directors “at the start of their careers.”At the moment, there were “very few established female directors” in world cinema, besides Jane Campion or Claire Denis, he added. The only way to bring in more women was to bring in up-and-comers. “That’s how we’ll see renewal,” Mr. Sotinel said.Last year, the Cannes Film Festival missed out on Alfonso Cuarón’s “Roma” because it was a Netflix production. “Roma,” which premiered at the Venice Film Festival, went on to win the top Venice prize as well as three Academy Awards.The reason for the exclusion was that Cannes requires all competition titles to be released in French movie theaters. The rule is part of a system of subsidies and regulations with which France protects its homegrown film industry and preserves its nationwide network of cinemas.Mr. Frémaux said the rule remained in place, though he and the festival management had had regular conversations with Netflix, including one earlier this week. He said Netflix had no movies ready that would have been potentially eligible for the competition.The president of the festival, Pierre Lescure, told reporters at the Paris news conference that the French film industry would soon show more flexibility and that the mandated delay between a movie’s theatrical release and its release by a streaming service, currently up to three years, could be changed. Depending on a movie’s style and budget, that window could be narrowed, he explained.
SUNDAY PUZZLE — Natan Last has a tremendous record for introducing elegant new entries (how had we lived without CAFFEINE FIX?) and a sharp eye for the type of wordplay that sneaks up on you (and, if you’re me, keeps right on going, just overhead). This is one of those puzzles. The solve is greatly enhanced by today’s constructor notes, so glean what details you can from Mr. Last — he mentors, and teaches people how to do this stuff, and has the type of loopy and flexible mind that slots together intricate bits and pieces to form a cohesive whole. It’s quite amazing.We’ve had a run of prominent Sunday themes that underpin an entire big grid. A bright puzzle like this, where one has to tease the tendrils of the theme out during the entire solve, is a lot of fun and a little bit of a palate cleanser.Much inscrutability today in that tendriled theme — if you don’t find what you’re looking for here, move on down a section.7A: A heartbreaking state of affairs, in the days of waning print circulation and instant feedback, is the lonely journalist sitting in the dark with his or her analytics panel open anxiously watching the CLICKS. There’s no market for quality over quantity anymore. (All of you are quality clicks, friends. High-class clicks.)71A: I don’t know if you’ve spent time in Louisiana or otherwise had the opportunity to “fais do-do,” or make a party happen, but if you have, then “makin’ groceries” probably sounded CAJUN to you. 72A: These are both astrological signs and AUTOS. If you happened to wonder if there was ever a “Scorpio” car, there was! It was gorgeous.2D: C.B. radios and their lingo go back about a century, and members of the “10 code,” common or relevant phrases that are coded to the number 10 with another number, were used by the police in the 1930s to make communication easier. It makes sense that TEN ONE would establish, right off the bat, that communication via the radio was staticky, faint or otherwise difficult to understand. Intentionally or not, the crossing here with SHE BEAR was cute because that could be a female cop. If a SHE BEAR in a plain brown wrapper takes your picture and turns on the bubble gum machine, you might be about to get a driving award.6D: The Nylons sang “The Lion Sleeps Tonight” and the Rayons sang “Do You Love Me.” Three makes a (highly synthetic) pattern; I always figured these bands were using the fabric names to be modern and slick, but the ORLONS apparently took their name as a spoof of a popular group at their high school, the Cashmeres. This was not the Cashmeres, by the way, who also had hits in the 60s.41D: Who else had “egg roll” at first? White House propaganda. If you went straight to EGG HUNT, maybe you thought of the Easter beagle.77D: After a 40-plus year absence, this is the second appearance in a few months of GAY PAREE, which looks so odd but was, as spelled, the title of a 1926 Broadway musical revue, and also in a title of a Cole Porter song for the 1953 show “Can-Can.”93D: This might have been the crunchiest “straight” clue today, heralding the 21st-century debut of OTOMI, or Hñäñhü, people of Central Mexico. I had never put a name to these marvelous textiles, but the Otomi are known for beautiful embroidery.There is a fairly well-known sporting event on telly this evening, so your minds may have been tuned to that frequency already, and we have a theme today that revolves around sportsmanship, or rather lack thereof, in four major athletic leagues — M.L.B. baseball, N.F.L. football, FIFA soccer and N.B.A. basketball. We seem to be missing N.H.L. hockey, probably because it’s difficult to play attempted murder for laughs, and that is what it takes to get thrown out of a hockey match (or so I thought — more on that later).There are three layers to each sports “play,” we’ll call them. The first two are codependent so we’ll address them together.First, there are four italicized clues, each linked to another entry — these are at 28A (linking to 102A), 48A (linking to 105A), 64A (linking to 87A) and 86D (linking to 65A). Each of these italicized clues refers to a star from one of the above sports leagues, getting “ejected,” or thrown out, of the entry that’s linked.Second, we have those linked clues, referred to above. Each is straightforward, but too tricky to come up with, at least for me, without a ton of crossing letters filled in. Even then, though, there’s a problem. 
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump visited Alabama in the wake of destructive tornadoes there.“You saw things that you wouldn’t believe,” he told reporters in a neighborhood gravely damaged on Sunday by the storm outbreak, which left at least 23 people dead. He also visited a church serving as the hub of a volunteer relief effort, where he signed Bibles, pictured above.Back in Washington, his administration lost two advisers. Bill Shine, the White House communications director and former Fox News executive, resigned, and will work for President Trump’s re-election campaign. The Air Force secretary, Heather Wilson, said she would resign to become president at the University of Texas at El Paso. She is one of the highest-ranking women at the Pentagon.The president tweeted about both resignations, which he said were amicable, as well as Michael Cohen. He asserted that his former lawyer asked him directly for a pardon and was denied, which contradicts Mr. Cohen’s testimony._____2. A weak monthly jobs report clouded the economic picture.Just 20,000 new U.S. jobs were added — a small fraction of the 175,000 that analysts had expected. It was the weakest jobs report since September 2017. Still, wage growth and jobless figures are promising signs. Some saw the jobs news as a fluke, and others a troubling omen. Above, a worker in Lewiston, Me., helps to weatherproof a home.The report may have been tinged with aftereffects from the government shutdown. And one possibility is that the economy, which has added 20 million jobs during a decades-long expansion, is close to exhausting the supply of workers._____3. The U.S. women’s soccer team sued U.S. Soccer, accusing it of “institutionalized gender discrimination,” just three months before the Women’s World Cup.The discrimination, the athletes said, affects not only their paychecks but also where they play and how often, how they train, the medical treatment and coaching they receive, and even how they travel to matches. Above, the team at a tournament last week.It was a sudden and significant escalation of their yearslong fight over pay equity and working conditions. The team, which includes some of the world’s most famous female athletes, has been a leading force in women’s sports for more than a generation._____
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. British business braces for impact, President Trump gives an interview to The Times, and European teenagers become a protest vanguard. Here’s the latest: Companies across Britain, faced with confusion around the country’s pending departure from the E.U., have been stockpiling products, making backup plans and exploring new shipping routes. International banks are shifting thousands of jobs from Britain to the Continent.“It’s meant extra resources, extra overtime, to get it done,” said one executive. “It’s incredibly annoying.”By the numbers: Britain’s economy is 2.3 percent smaller than it would have been if voters in 2016 had opted to remain in the E.U., according to one research institution. And investment in the auto sector was found to have plunged by almost 50 percent in 2018.What’s next? Parliament remains mired in disagreement and the E.U. disinclined to reopen matters. Sixty days out from the March 29 deadline to leave the bloc, uncertainty is spreading.Come again? As a BBC anchor ended an evening news program by saying, “Theresa May says she intends to go back to Brussels to renegotiate her Brexit deal,” the screen showed grainy images of World War II planes that appeared to be Spitfires. Watch here. President Trump told our reporters in an 85-minute interview on Thursday that negotiations with Congress over his border wall were a “waste of time” and that he would proceed without lawmakers. This weekend he will retreat to Mar-a-Lago — his gilded club where all is well.Russia investigation: Mr. Trump denied an account by his former lawyer, Michael Cohen, that late in the 2016 presidential campaign he was still discussing a project to build a Trump-branded skyscraper in Moscow. He also claimed that his lawyers had been reassured by the outgoing deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, that the president himself is not a target of the special counsel, Robert Mueller. Here are five takeaways from what Mr. Trump said.Trade: Mr. Trump spoke immediately after wrapping up a session with China’s visiting vice premier in which the president said they had made progress toward defusing the trade war. In other Washington news: The Senate voted to pass nonbinding bipartisan legislation that objects to Mr. Trump’s withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan and Syria, the second time in two months that the Senate has rebuked the president’s foreign policy.“Police investigators, tax officers, pro-government tabloids” have become the hammers of President Aleksandar Vucic and his populist, conservative Serbian Progressive Party. That was the testimony to the Council in Europe in November of Nebojsa Zelenovic, the mayor of Sabac, one of the few places not controlled by the governing party.
ROYAN, France — Two years after a clandestine impromptu training session on the hills of Tehran, Sadaf Khadem will become the first Iranian woman to contest an official boxing fight, hoping to lead the way in the Islamic Republic.The bout will take place in western France on Saturday after the 24-year-old met with Frenchman Mahyar Monshipour, an Iranian-born former super bantamweight world champion."In 2017, I went to Iran for a promotional event and I ended up organizing a public training session on the hills overlooking Tehran. About 35 people showed up, and there were six women," Monshipour told Reuters."She contacted me on social media to ask me to make her box but I told her it was not possible. Then about a couple of months ago the Iranian federation opened the door for women boxing and we asked them to set up an event. "But it became apparent that it would not be possible because they wanted a female coach, female referee... so with the help of the Sports ministry we made her come to France."Next week Khadem will return to Iran, where Monshipour expects her to be met with 'popular jubilation'. He will, however, travel back with her, just in case, to a country where women have started to take off their head scarves in a peaceful protest against the compulsory hijab."If she ends up in custody, I will not let her down," he said. Khadem took up boxing four years ago, being compelled to train in private fitness rooms since public boxing facilities are reserved for men. In Iran, women were allowed to attend a men's soccer game for the first last October."It is easier for wrestling and weightlifting because they are more in our culture," Khadem told Reuters after a training session on Thursday. BREAK THE DAMSome women fight but the bouts are illegal and being held in Turkey with no medical insurance. In France, Khadem trained at the National Institute of Sport and was handed a French license to practice and fight.For the first time she trained among men, and she burst into tears at the end of a session, overwhelmed by her emotions."My parents were worried when I started boxing but they saw I was really loving it so now they are supporting me. I'm now steaming ahead," said Khadem.
BRUSSELS — European summits, jaded Englishmen have said, are like soccer: they go into extra-time, and the Germans always win.For the journalists covering them, it is like commentating live on a match played behind closed doors: only partial information leaks out from self-promoting rival players, and even when it’s over, the final score is often far from clear.Another high-stakes summit coming up on Wednesday is likely to be a replay of the same fixture 10 days ago, when British Prime Minister Theresa May sat in late-night talks with fellow EU leaders trying to delay Brexit until June.Hundreds of journalists were gathered in the cavernous atrium of the Justus Lipsius Building, home to the European Council of EU national leaders.For Reuters, the game starts days before such summits begin. Reporters tap their sources in capitals across Europe and EU institutions in Brussels, trying to work out who wants what from the meeting.When the leaders file in, talking to cameras without translators in the 24 EU languages, our multilingual team relays their words instantly.Once they're in, the summit match starts in earnest.Last month, May began the closed-door meeting by explaining her plans and taking questions from peers. She was looking for an extension to the Brexit deadline to give her more time to try to win backing from Britain’s parliament for her plan to exit the European Union.The first sign of a story was that May's presentation before she had to leave the room lasted well over an hour, much longer than previous such sessions. But was that good or bad for Theresa May?One UK government source told us it had gone "OK". But our sources among EU officials and national diplomats made clear in hushed conversations and text messages that it had gone "very badly" for her indeed.A flurry of contradictory messages and rumors began to emerge. This is when reporters need to hold their nerve, when the urge to be quick can compete with the need to be right.As the other 27 discussed May's pitch among themselves, French President Emmanuel Macron was pushing to end the agony and get Britain out almost immediately. German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged caution. Europe's power couple huddled with summit chair Donald Tusk, drafting and redrafting a response to Britain.Outside the room, Bulgaria's ambassador tweeted a picture, worthy of Caravaggio, of envoys crowding round one version on a screen. (https://twitter.com/DTzantchev/status/1108807850397261826)Hours later, as reporters started preparing for yet another all-nighter, Reuters got word from upstairs of the breakthrough: a two-stage approach that might mean Brexit in May, or April. First word from one source a little after 10 p.m. meant rapid checks with others.At nearly midnight, all was confirmed in a flurry of news conferences. By 2 a.m. our final stories were published, a much earlier finish than some EU summits.
PARIS — President Emmanuel Macron of France said on Sunday that he wanted to create a national day of commemoration for the 1994 genocide in Rwanda, which has been a longstanding source of tension between the two countries.Mr. Macron said in a statement that he wanted to create a national day of remembrance on April 7, the date 25 years ago that Rwanda’s Hutu majority began systematically massacring members of the Tutsi minority, leaving an estimated 800,000 to one million people dead.“On this day of commemoration for the 25th anniversary of the Tutsi genocide in Rwanda, the president of the republic expresses his solidarity with the Rwandan people and his compassion for the victims and their families,” the statement said.Rwanda, led by President Paul Kagame, has long accused France of complicity in the genocide and of helping some of the perpetrators escape, poisoning ties between the two countries, even though relations have warmed since Mr. Macron’s election in 2017.France has been accused of providing weapons and military training to the Hutu-dominated government in the years that led up to the genocide, and of failing to prevent or even supporting the massacres when they started, despite the presence of French peacekeeping soldiers.Ibuka France, a group that advocates remembrance of the genocide, praised Mr. Macron’s announcement. Marcel Kabanda, the head of the group, told Agence France-Presse that Ibuka France had suggested the idea in a meeting with Mr. Macron on Friday.Mr. Macron did not say what the day of commemoration would entail or how he would create it. He could proceed by decree, or have his government present a bill in Parliament, where his party has a majority in the more powerful lower house.France has admitted mistakes in how it handled the killings but has always denied the accusations of complicity. After meeting with survivors and members of Ibuka France on Friday, Mr. Macron ordered a two-year government study of France’s role in the genocide.The study will be led by a commission of eight historians and researchers. They will have access to official French archives covering the period between 1990 and 1994 in order to “analyze the role and involvement of France” during the massacres and to help shape French school curriculums, Mr. Macron said.In Rwanda, a week of commemorations started on Sunday, as did 100 days of mourning for victims of the genocide. Mr. Kagame laid a wreath and lit a flame at the Gisozi memorial site in Kigali, the capital. Over 250,000 people are believed to be buried at the site.A remembrance walk was scheduled to go from the Rwandan Parliament building to the national soccer stadium. Several heads of state were expected to attend, but not Mr. Macron, who sent Hervé Berville, a member of France’s Parliament and survivor of the Rwandan genocide, as his representative.Mr. Berville, 29, was evacuated by the French Army at the age of 4 and adopted by a couple in Brittany. He was part of the wave of first-time politicians elected to the lower house of Parliament in 2017 for Mr. Macron’s party.“It is both a source of pride and a great responsibility to go there to represent France,” Mr. Berville told RFI radio on Tuesday.Mr. Macron also announced last week that more resources would be granted to the French judicial authorities who are working to identify and prosecute those suspected of perpetrating the genocide, some of whom fled to France after the violence ended.
Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union has provoked months of bitter division, but on Friday there was a break in the routine: an outbreak of affection and good will.In a tenderly written missive to Britons, more than two dozen leading figures in Germany — including Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, the favorite to become the country’s next chancellor — described their admiration for many things British, including its tea and beer, and their sorrow over the impending divorce.“After the horrors of the Second World War, Britain did not give up on us,” said the open letter published in The Times, the British newspaper favored by the establishment. It emphasized Germany’s appreciation that it had been welcomed back as a sovereign nation after the conflict and as a European power.“This we, as Germans, have not forgotten and we are grateful,” the letter went on, concluding that “Britons should know: From the bottom of our hearts, we want them to stay.”Norbert Röttgen, head of the German Parliament’s Committee on Foreign Affairs, who co-wrote the letter, said the signers decided they needed to say something after this week’s defeat of the British prime minister’s Brexit proposal.“The time was ripe to make sure that we raise our voice, and that we try to make it a German voice, to let the Brits know that while we fully respect what they decide, we do consider it a European affair,” Mr. Röttgen said. “We wanted to say what we feel, to express our convictions and our deep emotions.”[Read about an unlikely Brexit star, and villain: the speaker of the British House of Commons.]The intervention comes at a critical moment in Britain following the crushing rejection on Tuesday of Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan for withdrawal from the European Union, or Brexit. There is growing speculation that the deadlock could lead to a general election or a second referendum that might reverse the whole idea.It is unclear whether a lovebomb from figures as varied as the Airbus chief, Thomas Enders, and the punk rock singer Campino will have much impact. But at least one signatory to the letter commands some name recognition in Britain: Jens Lehmann, the former goalkeeper of Germany’s national soccer team.Behind the initiative lies concern in Berlin over the prospect that Britain may leave the European Union without an agreement, with economically damaging consequences for the entire continent.While the European Union — and especially France — took a tough line in negotiating the withdrawal, Britain and Germany have often agreed on economic issues in Brussels. But Brexit is destined to change the internal balance within the European Union, removing a country that has often been useful to Berlin politically and a big financial contributor to the bloc.Britons’ reaction to the letter was mixed, with some commenting on its folksy focus on the country’s “legendary black humor,” drinking tea with milk, Christmas pantomime and driving on the left.As enemies in two world wars in the 20th century, the two countries have a complicated relationship. Germany’s affection for Britain is not always reciprocated, despite widespread respect for the German postwar economic miracle and its modern-day success.Sporting rivalry is particularly fierce in soccer, where the record has at times been so grim for England that Gary Lineker, the TV host and former England international player, once described it as a game where “22 men chase a ball for 90 minutes and at the end, the Germans always win.”Whether the intervention will help or hinder the pro-Europeans in Britain’s Brexit debate is a moot point, as the British are prickly about anything that could be construed as outside interference in political discussions.
The shaky video clips of Julian Assange’s arrest flashed around the world on Thursday, the white-bearded prophet of the age of leaks being hauled by unsmiling security officers to a gray van marked Police.“We must resist!” he cried. “You can resist!” It was a scene that the very image-conscious Mr. Assange might appreciate: one man literally fighting the all-powerful state.It was also the latest — and surely not the last — dramatic turn in a career marked by both brilliant achievement and dubious judgment. Mr. Assange has long had a knack for celebrity, and as a tech-savvy, global, almost stateless figure, he captured the new influence the internet could give to individual citizens.[Read more about the arrest of Julian Assange.]His creation of WikiLeaks helped empower a generation of whistle-blowers and disgruntled insiders who could operate on an industrial scale, providing disclosures by the terabyte and enraging the powerful in many countries. WikiLeaks collaborated closely with major world publications, including The New York Times, in the release of secret records on the American-led wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and a quarter-million confidential State Department cables.But Mr. Assange has always elicited fervent reactions: He has been hailed as a hero of free information, or despised as a treacherous criminal worthy of death by drone — often depending on what WikiLeaks had recently been up to. Though he has always described himself as a journalist, he has been far too much of an activist to be satisfied with the role of neutral and fair-minded provider of information.He has proved a highly problematic, even embarrassing champion for the principles of press freedom and the public’s right to information, especially in recent years. For the past seven, he was hiding out at Ecuador’s tiny redbrick embassy in London, not just from American prosecutors, but also from Swedish sex-crime investigators, who eventually closed their case.Mr. Assange, the world’s most famous self-proclaimed political refugee, lived there with his cat in a small corner room. He continued to run WikiLeaks, conducted news conferences before hundreds of fawning admirers from a balcony, rode his skateboard in the halls and played host to a parade of visitors, including Lady Gaga and Pamela Anderson, a rumored lover who brought with her vegan sandwiches.The arrest came at the end of a meandering legal path that began in 2010, when the Justice Department announced it was investigating WikiLeaks. Obama administration officials eventually dropped the idea, persuaded by press advocates that prosecuting WikiLeaks would set a dangerous precedent because many mainstream news organizations regularly publish classified information.In 2016, some of Mr. Assange’s former American sympathizers turned sharply against him after he made WikiLeaks into an enthusiastic instrument of Russia’s intervention in the American presidential election, doling out hacked Democratic emails to maximize their political effect, campaigning against Hillary Clinton on Twitter and promoting a false cover story about the source of the leaks.That performance drew voluble praise from her opponent, Donald J. Trump, who regularly read from leaked Clinton campaign emails in his 2016 stump speeches and declared, “I love WikiLeaks.” But months later, while he was president, WikiLeaks posted a collection of classified documents on the C.I.A.’s hacking tools, and Mr. Trump’s first C.I.A. chief, Mike Pompeo, called Mr. Assange “a narcissist” and labeled the organization “a nonstate hostile intelligence service.”His words were a harbinger of the single charge of conspiracy to commit computer intrusion against Mr. Assange that the Justice Department unsealed on Thursday.In some ways, Mr. Assange, 47, has never fully shed the rebellious, secretive ways of the precocious Australian teenager with a complicated family background who, with two pals, formed a hacking collective called the International Subversives. In the 1997 book “Underground,” a lengthy account of the young hackers written by Suelette Dreyfus and crediting Mr. Assange as “researcher,” a hacker with the nickname Mendax clearly resembles the young Julian.Mendax found the small Australian town where Mr. Assange lived with his mother, Emerald, “dead boring,” the book says. “Sometimes Mendax went to school. Often he didn’t. The school system didn’t hold much interest for him.” A vulnerable computer network in Sydney, the book says, “was a far more interesting place to muck around in than the rural high school.”In 1991, at age 20, Mr. Assange was charged with a long list of hacking offenses, to which he pleaded guilty and got off with a fine and a warning. “There is just no evidence that there was anything other than sort of intelligent inquisitiveness and the pleasure of being able to — what’s the expression — surf through these various computers,” the judge said at his sentencing, according to an account in The New Yorker.
KNUTSFORD, England — That day, Raheem Sterling looked up, and tuned in. Ordinarily when he is on the field, he loses himself so completely in the game that the noise of the crowd becomes an indistinct murmur, each voice lost in the hum of tens of thousands.But as Sterling approached the touchline to collect the ball for a corner kick in Manchester City’s Premier League game at Chelsea on Dec. 8, something forced him to switch his focus.He remembers making eye contact with a handful of fans in the front row of the Matthew Harding Stand at Stamford Bridge. Like all players, and as one of his country’s best players, he is used to hostility, particularly away from home. But what he could see was different. It looked, to him, like hatred.“The way they were looking at me, I had to see where all this anger was coming from,” he said. “I was listening in to hear what they were saying.” What he picked up, he said, he dismissed immediately: “Nah, that can’t be what I heard.”Video suggested his suspicion was right. One fan, in particular, appeared to have screamed a racial obscenity at him. The consequences added credence: Not long after the game ended, Chelsea announced it had barred four fans from attending games, pending an investigation into whether Sterling had been racially abused. The incident was reported to the London police. It was neither Sterling’s first racist encounter — as a teenager, he once was head-butted by a stranger on a Liverpool street — nor the first time he had experienced racism in an English stadium. In his first match at Everton’s Goodison Park after joining Manchester City, he said, he was walking toward the tunnel when a boy with his father called him a “black something.”As he left Stamford Bridge that evening in December, though, Sterling, 24, kept churning over what he had heard, what had happened. By the time he returned to Manchester, he decided that it was “too much now.” He wanted to say something.He spent all night thinking of the best way to do it. He did some research, got his thoughts in order. The next morning, as he sat in the back seat of a car on the 30-minute drive from his home to Manchester City’s training facility, he composed a 207-word message to accompany his thoughts. It focused not just on what had happened at Stamford Bridge, but why. Sterling posted it, with two images, to his Instagram account.“I am not normally the person to talk a lot,” the message began. “But when I think I need my point to be heard I will speak up.”A few weeks ago, Sterling returned to visit friends near Wembley, the part of northwest London where he grew up. He remains intimately connected to the place: He said he was in discussions with the local council to find an appropriate site for a sporting and educational institute, somewhere to provide opportunities for children (and their parents) from backgrounds similar to his.It is a personal and, until now, a private thing, something he says is less his responsibility as a professional athlete and more an innate desire to “show light” to a new generation. He wants his story to give others like him hope.“Not just to be a footballer,” Sterling said, “but to do whatever they want to do.”It is not hard to find inspiration in Sterling’s rise. His story has long been crowbarred into the narrative often expected of athletes: the deprived upbringing, the triumph over adversity, that comforting fairy tale told of so many athletes in which greatness flowers best in soil left untended.His father was shot dead in Jamaica when he was 2. His mother moved to England in the hope of giving her children a better life. Sterling remembers her “fight to get jobs,” the long hours she put in, the days he and his sister would help her clean hotel rooms before school.Sterling has always been keen not to allow exaggerations to flourish, to correct any poetic license taken by those telling his story. In 2016, he told The Mail on Sunday that his childhood home was not in a “rough, rough” area; in a piece for The Players’ Tribune last year, he said that while his family never had much money, his mother always made sure he and his sister had what they needed.
DAKAR, Senegal — They sprint. They sweat. They squat to the ground and bounce backward. They sit side-by-side and lock arms for group situps. They dig trenches in the sand for stability, to get more out of each push up.And, then, when the rush-hour traffic really backs up and exhaust fumes pour across this little, sandy triangle of an outdoor gym bordered by a highway and two exit ramps, sometimes the athletes vomit.“Sports and pollution,” said Joseph Faye, a wrestling coach who was grappling with other young men there on a recent evening, “they don’t go together.”Increasingly in Dakar, where outdoor exercise is a way of life, the two are colliding.On any given evening, thousands of runners, wrestlers, soccer players and fitness fanatics take to the beaches and streets for a strenuous workout.Practically the whole city transforms into a California-like muscle beach with bodies grunting and panting and pushing themselves to extremes on any empty patch of land.Sprinters mount a lighthouse-topped hill or fly down the steps leading from a grand mosque. Body builders lift chunks of broken concrete and heave themselves up on a rusty metal rod stretched across two wooden poles.Backward exercising is a thing, with throngs of people squatting and sprinting in reverse.But with every breath, these exercisers are inhaling air that the World Health Organization considers dangerous. Dakar’s air exceeds by more than five times the limits set by the World Health Organization of the amount of small particles that when inhaled can damage health.The air in Dakar, with its windswept coastal roadway and waves lapping against craggy bluffs, sometimes can appear deceptively clear.Other times, especially this time of year when a dust storm rolls in and traffic backs up, it can feel like walking through a cloud of chalk dust after someone bangs two erasers together, inside an oven.“It’s a real problem for respiratory diseases,” said Nafissatou Oumar Toure Badiane, the chief of pulmonology at Fann University Hospital in Dakar, who noted that the number of childhood asthma cases at one of the city’s biggest hospitals had recently jumped.She estimated that a third of the population has some kind of lung ailment.And there are signs that air quality here is getting worse.Dakar is growing, having almost doubled in size in the past decade as people pour in from the countryside and nearby nations in search of jobs. Some of its five million inhabitants are farmers who have given up in the wake of chronic drought dating to the 70s.
For Dwyane Wade's final NBA game, where else would his so-called Banana Boat Crew members be but on hand to see it?Wade ended his 16-year career Wednesday night when his Miami Heat visited the Brooklyn Nets at the Barclays Center, and among the spectators were his longtime friends and fellow NBA stars LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony.Of course they would be there, James said during the game. James was shut down for several of the Lakers' final games and Paul's Thunder played their final regular-season game Tuesday night. Anthony did not sign with another NBA team after his release from the Rockets this season."Listen, we all started this journey together," James told Fox Sports Southeast. "Obviously CP came into the league a couple years after us, but we have a brotherhood that is just so much more than basketball. CP played last night, we had our last regular-season game last night, and Melo is right here in New York, so we kind of made the plan and made the decision to come up here."The friends often travel together during the summer and picked up the Banana Boat Crew moniker after photos of them riding in one circulated on social media in 2016.James, who won two NBA titles with Wade in Miami, two of the three Wade won altogether, was asked about favorite memories of his friendship with Wade. James said a good answer to that would take a while."I mean, we'd be here all night talking. We'd be here all night talking about the best memories, or the most fond memories I have of D-Wade."The plane rides, the bus rides, the hotels when we get to the city we'd go to the hotel room and just chop it up, the dinners we had on the road, everything we did was always genuine. (There was) always love, and we always wanted the best for one another, no matter the good or the bad."I will say the most founding part was when we lost (to Dallas in 2011). Because, without ‘11, there's no (2013), no (2012 championship) banners hanging up in (AmericanAirlines Arena). That's what made us. That's what made our team."It's been an unbelievable journey for my guy, and I'm happy to be here for the last little part of the road before the train comes to a stop."--Field Level Media
Take a look at the five highest-scoring seasons in NBA history.— Wilt Chamberlain scored 4,029 points in 1961-62.— Chamberlain scored 3,586 in 1962-63.— Michael Jordan scored 3,041 points in 1986-87.— Chamberlain scored 3,033 in 1960-61.— Chamberlain scored 2,948 points in 1963-64.There they are. The five best seasons in terms of points that the NBA has ever seen. And those five seasons all have something in common — when they were over, someone not named Chamberlain or Jordan was the MVP.What James Harden did this season for the Houston Rockets was scintillating. He scored 50 or more points nine times. He scored 61 twice. He scored at least 30 points in 32 consecutive games, a stretch that lasted more than two months. He will finish this season with the seventh-highest scoring average in NBA history and win the scoring title by more than 8 points per game — a ridiculous margin.He wins Most Voluminous Points.But maybe not the Most Valuable Player.There are some tremendous individual races in the NBA this season, with a slew of deserving candidates for coach of the year, a rather unexpected two-person race for rookie of the year, and the annual befuddlement about who should win defensive player of the year. The ballot that voters will agonize over most, in some cases, will be the one for MVP.Is it Harden, for the second straight year?Or is it Milwaukee's Giannis Antetokounmpo?Compelling cases can be made either way. Harden carried the Rockets and became the most unguardable player in the league. Antetokounmpo took a team that finished seventh in the East last year and lifted it to the No. 1 overall seed in the NBA, continuing his meteoric rise toward total superstardom.Harden is the better scorer, Antetokounmpo the more accurate shooter. Harden is the better ballhandler and passer, Antetokounmpo the better rebounder and defender. Take Antetokounmpo off the Bucks, and they'd be lucky to make the playoffs. Take Harden off the Rockets, and they'd be lucky to make the playoffs.
The NBA rescinded technical fouls assessed to Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant and Los Angeles Clippers forward JaMychal Green on Friday after reviewing a call made during Thursday night's game.Durant and Green were exchanging words during the third quarter when the double-technical was called, stunning both players.The decision to rescind was announced from the league's @NBAOfficial account on Twitter.The change was good for Durant, as he already received two technicals earlier in the series. An accumulation of seven technicals during the postseason carries an automatic one-game suspension. He had lobbied for the technicals to be rescinded after Thursday's 132-105 victory.--Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, who missed Game 3 of his team's first-round playoff series against the Brooklyn Nets on Thursday night because of left knee soreness, is listed as doubtful for Game 4 on Saturday. The NBA announced his status in its injury report.Embiid's status has digressed from the first three games when he was listed as questionable. He continues to deal with left knee tendinitis, a problem throughout the regular season, when he missed 14 of the Sixers' 24 games after the All-Star break.Despite Embiid's absence in Game 3, the visiting 76ers rolled to a 131-115 victory over the host Nets to take a 2-1 lead. Greg Monroe started in Embiid's place and collected nine points on 4-for-13 shooting and grabbed 13 rebounds. Game 4 of the best-of-seven will also be played in Brooklyn before the series shifts to Philadelphia on Tuesday.--The status of Detroit Pistons forward Blake Griffin remains uncertain entering Saturday's Game 3 of the team's Eastern Conference first-round series against the Milwaukee Bucks.Griffin missed the first two games with a left knee injury, and coach Dwane Casey didn't shed any light on whether the six-time All-Star will return on Saturday for the eighth-seeded Pistons, who lost the first two games of the series in Milwaukee by an average of 28 points."Day-to-day. I'm not talking about Blake," Casey told reporters after Friday's practice. "Day-to-day. Same old words. Just like I am on coaching -- day-to-day."--Former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue was scheduled to interview with the Los Angeles Lakers for their head coaching vacancy, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.The Lakers fired coach Luke Walton last week after three seasons and a 98-148 record.Lue, who previously served as an assistant coach for the Boston Celtics, L.A. Clippers and Cavaliers, became head coach in Cleveland during the 2015-16 season after David Blatt was fired.--Field Level Media
Kentucky standout sophomore PJ Washington declared for the NBA Draft on Tuesday and will hire an agent, the school announced."This place has been my home for two years and it's hard for me to put in words how much I've grown in my time at Kentucky. The staff challenged me from day one to become the best version of myself and to work hard to become one of the best players in college basketball. I feel like I've done that," Washington said in a statement posted on the Wildcats' website.The 6-foot-8 forward ends his career with 932 points, 476 rebounds 120 assists and 74 blocks. He led the Wildcats in scoring (15.2) and rebounding (7.5) this past season. He also posted nine double-doubles and shot 52.2 percent from the floor, including 42.3 percent from the 3-point line.Washington earned first team All-SEC and third team All-America honors."PJ transformed everything about his game. He became a national player of the year candidate, he showed his full set of his skills and he improved his stock while helping us become one of the best teams in the country," Kentucky coach John Calipari said.Washington is projected to be a mid-first-round pick by ESPN.--Field Level Media
The Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level Media
Texas Longhorns freshman Jaxson Hayes has declared for the NBA draft and will hire an agent, the school announced Thursday."I have always dreamed about playing in the NBA. Now that I have the chance to realize that dream, I would like to pursue that opportunity," Hayes said in a statement.The 6-foot-11 forward averaged 10 points and 5.0 rebounds in his only season with the Longhorns. He started 21 of 32 games and shot 72.8 percent from the floor.The Big 12 Freshman of the Year is a potential lottery pick, according to several draft outlets. ESPN ranks him as the No. 9 prospect.--LSU freshman guard Javonte Smart announced on social media that he will enter the draft, joining teammates Naz Reid, Skylar Mays and Tremont Waters.Smart averaged 11.1 points, 3.3 rebounds and 2.4 assists in his lone year in Baton Rouge.LSU sat Smart for the regular-season finale following the suspension of coach Will Wade over allegations he was linked to the NCAA's pay-for-play scandal. It has been speculated that Wade was part of a scheme to pay to gain Smart's commitment to LSU.--Stanford sophomore guard KZ Okpala announced he is entering the NBA draft.The first-team all-Pac-12 selection averaged a team-high 16.9 points with 5.7 rebounds in 29 games for the Cardinal in 2018-19. He scored a career-high 30 points in an 84-81 win at Cal on Feb. 3."It's exciting to apply what I have learned so far as I begin this journey and see where it takes me," said Okpala, who is ranked No. 26 on ESPN's list of the top 100 draft prospects.--Houston guard Armoni Brooks will declare for the NBA draft and test the process, Stadium sports network reported.Brooks, a 6-foot-3, 195-pound junior, averaged 13.4 points and a team-leading 6.3 rebounds per game this season for the Cougars, who finished 33-4 and lost to Kentucky in the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tournament. Brooks scored 20 points in the defeat.As a sophomore in 2017-18, he was named American Athletic Conference Sixth Man of the Year."Armoni is somebody who has had tangible progress every year," assistant coach Kellen Sampson told the Houston Chronicle during the NCAA Tournament. "Every year he made marked improvement to figure out how to rebound or on how to make some plays for himself. He's on a natural progression. He is a really good player, but he's finding his way to becoming that best player next year. He will be at the top of scouting reports."--Duke freshman forward Cam Reddish announced on Instagram that he is declaring for the NBA draft, and a school spokeman confirmed he will hire an agent.
Two-time SEC Player of the Year Grant Williams announced Tuesday that he is entering the NBA draft but will remain open to returning to school for his senior season.The 6-foot-7 Williams said he will go through the process and make a decision at a later date about whether to stay in the draft. He has until May 29 to make up his mind."My whole thing is I want to go into the process with an open mind and understand what I need to improve on and what I need to get better at, while also understanding I have to make the most informed decision possible," Williams said during a press conference. "If it is the right time, then it is the right time. It is just a matter of going into it with the mindset that I'm going into it to improve myself."Williams averaged 18.8 points and 7.5 rebounds this season while earning first-team All-American honors.The Volunteers (31-6) matched the school record for victories and reached the Sweet 16 before losing to Purdue. Williams allows that there is unfinished business."No doubt. There's always that (thought) process of there's more that we can do, more that we can accomplish," Williams said. "That's something that is always going to be in your mind throughout the process no matter what is going on. You have to understand that it's a win-win."If you come back, there's a lot more you can do as a team and individually in the future it can be a win in that aspect as well."Williams' decision to test the NBA waters comes one day after coach Rick Barnes decided to turn down overtures from UCLA to remain at Tennessee."I talked to him three or four times," Williams said of Barnes. "I reached out to him and he reached out to me. I let him know I trusted him because he is a guy who had never been about himself, it has never been about money. It has never been about anything of that sort. It has been about how he can impact people's lives."I know that Coach Barnes, his goal is he wants a championship. In order to make that happen, he knows he can do it here. He knew he could do it wherever he went. I think being here at the University of Tennessee is something that helps him be comfortable."Tennessee point guard Jordan Bone also recently entered the draft. He also is open to returning to the Volunteers.--Field Level Media
NEW YORK — The future of NBA basketball could look like European soccer.Tournaments that take place during the season along with league games intrigue Commissioner Adam Silver as a way to change the format of the NBA's 82-game season.If it even keeps an 82-game season.Silver mentioned everything from shorter games to a shorter season Friday as ways the NBA could make its future product better for players and fans."The format we have in place now — I'm a traditionalist on one hand, but on the other hand it's 50 years old or so, presenting an 82-game season, and there's nothing magical about it," Silver said."I think it's on the league office to always be challenging the way we do things, to be paying attention to changing viewer habits, a changing marketplace, a new world of the way media is presented, often on smaller devices, less on screens, people having shorter attention spans, and saying, 'This is an incredible game, it's never been more exciting, the athleticism has never been greater, fantastic players coming from all around the world, but what's the best way to put the season together?'"Silver has focused on player health as commissioner, opening the regular season earlier to reduce the frequency of back-to-back games, and lengthening the All-Star break.But players are still sitting out games throughout the season — either by their choice or because their teams are requiring it — often for reasons being listed as load management."I think a fair point from fans could be if ultimately the science suggests that 82 games is too many games for these players, maybe you shouldn't have an 82-game season," Silver said. "I accept that, and that's something we'll continue to look at."Fewer games could mean less revenue, unless they could be replaced by something that would generate as many or more viewers. Tournaments could be an answer, even if 82 games remains the format.Silver has pointed to European soccer as something that could bring new interest to the NBA by offering teams more opportunities to win something, instead of just having one champion."That's why I'm particularly interested in looking at different kinds of formats — at midseason tournaments, for example, play-in tournaments — because even accepting that players have so many miles on their bodies, there may be better ways to present it," Silver said. "Assuming guys are going to play 82 games, maybe there should be a certain number of games in the regular season and then there should be two tournaments throughout the season."He acknowledged that model would require a change of thinking in American fans, who are used to only caring about the winner of the NBA Finals.Silver also mentioned the possibility of trimming games from 48 minutes to 40, which is the length of college and international games.He cautioned that none of the changes he discussed after the league's Board of Governors meetings were close to being implemented, and would continue to be studied within the league, perhaps for a few years.
Here are the winners and losers even before the opening tip of the 2019 NBA playoffs:BIG WINNER: The NBA.Without LeBron James around anymore, the Eastern Conference playoffs are actually unpredictable. Imagine that. Well, starting with the second round, anyway. When the Boston Celtics passed the Indiana Pacers late in the regular season, it increased the chances of the East's Big Four -- the Milwaukee Bucks, Toronto Raptors, Philadelphia 76ers and Boston -- getting together for some pretty great basketball in early May. And a potential Houston Rockets-Golden State Warriors semi in the West? More must-see TV. Coming soon.BIG LOSER: Dwyane Wade.Gotta say: Tuesday night was an all-timer in the NBA, highlighted by the going-away parties for Wade and Dirk Nowitzki. It was a shame they had to share the national stage, and that's on Wade. If he'd been inspired to put on more dazzling displays like his grand finale and fewer like the lackluster effort in the February home blowout loss to the Detroit Pistons that in the end cost the Heat a playoff spot, we'd be seeing a potential seven-game Wade vs. Giannis extravaganza starting this weekend.SMALL WINNER: Neil Olshey.Did anyone notice that the Portland Trail Blazers actually got better just when their season appeared to blow up when Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum got hurt late in the tightly contested Western playoff battle? Credit Olshey, the Portland general manager who had the foresight to add another big quality man (Enes Kanter) and another scorer (Rodney Hood) before things got desperate. Now it's Kanter vs. Oklahoma City's Steven Adams in a true rarity -- a classic battle of big men -- in a powerful first-round duel of former teammates.SMALL LOSER: Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yes, it could have been Giannis vs. Wade. Or Giannis vs. the entertaining Brooklyn Nets, against whom he had a triple-double and averaged nearly 30 points a game. Even Giannis vs. the Charlotte Hornets' Kemba Walker would have been better than ... Giannis vs. the Pistons. Ugh. The Bucks dominated their Central Division rival this season, sweeping the four-game series, even though Detroit coach Dwane Casey found a way to suck the life out of the MVP candidate, twice holding Giannis to 15 points. Do yourself a favor: When Bucks-Pistons Game 1 comes on television this weekend, switch over to the Masters. Even a replay if need be.LOSERS WHO'LL SOON BE WINNERS: Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving.The curtain closed on the regular season with Anthony Davis getting booed by his home (former) fans, even though he's still under contract with the New Orleans Pelicans. You got LeBron on the sideline and Magic Johnson out of work, and it's all interrelated. And don't think it ends now that the playoffs are here. The over/under is 24: the number of hours between the season-ending loss and the announcement that Durant, Leonard and Irving are out of here. Who will be the first to get the Davis treatment on his way out the door? Somewhere, odds are being posted.--By Dave Del Grande, Field Level Media
Texas Tech standout Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, announced Thursday he will forgo his last two seasons in Lubbock and declare for the 2019 NBA Draft.The 6-foot-5, 195-pound guard made the announcement during a press conference in Lubbock, Texas.Culver helped lead the Red Raiders to a share of the Big 12 regular-season title and was effective in this year's NCAA Tournament, where Texas Tech fell to Virginia 85-77 in overtime in the national championship game.On the season, Culver averaged 18.5 points, 6.4 rebounds and 3.7 assists per game while the Red Raiders set a school record with 31 wins.--Also announcing his plans to declare for the draft was 18-year-old Russian Nikita Mikhailovskii, according to a report by ESPN.The 6-foot-8, 180-pound wing is trying to become the first Russian player drafted since 2013 when Sergey Karasev was chosen with the 19th pick by the Cleveland Cavaliers.Mikhailovskii spent the past season playing in the mostly Russian VTB United League and FIBA Europe Cup, averaging 7.8 points in 16.8 minutes while shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range in 45 games.--The Memphis Grizzlies hired two former general managers to their front office, adding Rich Cho as vice president of strategy and Glen Grunwald as senior adviser.Cho is a former GM of the Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers, and Grunwald was GM of the New York Knicks and Toronto Raptors.The Grizzlies demoted former GM Chris Wallace to a scouting role in a flurry of moves last week, including the firing of head coach J.B. Bickerstaff and the promotion of Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations.--Los Angeles Clippers assistant general manager Trent Redden reportedly is close to interviewing for a senior front-office role with the New Orleans Pelicans.The Clippers gave the Pelicans permission to discuss the position with Redden, ESPN reported, citing league sources.David Griffin, the Pelicans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, worked closely with Redden when they with the Cleveland Cavaliers during their 2016 NBA championship season. ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski noted that Griffin is expected to be "aggressive" in pursuing Redden.--Field Level Media
LEXINGTON, Ky. — Kentucky freshman guard Tyler Herro will enter the NBA draft pool and hire an agent but leave open the possibility of returning to school.Herro is the third Wildcats underclassman to enter the draft, joining forward PJ Washington and guard Keldon Johnson. The 6-foot-5 player from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, says in a news release Friday that he wanted to see where he stood in the draft process and make an informed decision, "but also leave my options open."New NCAA rules allow players to sign with an NCAA-certified agent and still return to school. He has until May 29 to decide on coming back for his sophomore season. The NBA Draft is June 20 in New York.Herro was Kentucky's No. 2 scorer at 14 points per game with 60 made 3-pointers on 36% shooting.He was named Southeastern Conference Newcomer of the Year by The Associated Press. SEC coaches selected him to the All-Freshman Team and All-SEC second team.___
Texas Longhorns freshman Jaxson Hayes has declared for the NBA draft and will hire an agent, the school announced Thursday."I have always dreamed about playing in the NBA. Now that I have the chance to realize that dream, I would like to pursue that opportunity," Hayes said in a statement.The 6-foot-11 forward averaged 10 points and 5.0 rebounds in his only season with the Longhorns. He started 21 of 32 games and shot 72.8 percent from the floor.The Big 12 Freshman of the Year is a potential lottery pick, according to several draft outlets. ESPN ranks him as the No. 9 prospect.--LSU freshman guard Javonte Smart announced on social media that he will enter the draft, joining teammates Naz Reid, Skylar Mays and Tremont Waters.Smart averaged 11.1 points, 3.3 rebounds and 2.4 assists in his lone year in Baton Rouge.LSU sat Smart for the regular-season finale following the suspension of coach Will Wade over allegations he was linked to the NCAA's pay-for-play scandal. It has been speculated that Wade was part of a scheme to pay to gain Smart's commitment to LSU.--Field Level Media
PHOENIX — Phoenix police are not recommending any charges against former NBA player Mike Bibby following an investigation into accusations of sexual abuse and harassment of a teacher at a suburban high school.A police spokesman, Sgt. Vince Lewis, says the investigation didn't find probable cause for charges against Bibby, who through his attorney denied the allegations made by a Shadow Mountain High School teacher.According to a restraining order issued in February, the teacher told police that Bibby groped her and rubbed against her after pulling her into his car on school grounds in 2017.Bibby played in the NBA from 1998 to 2012, including stints with Vancouver, Sacramento and Atlanta. He played on the University of Arizona team that won the 1997 NCAA national championship.
BERLIN — Retired NBA champion Dirk Nowitzki, who spent 21 seasons at the Dallas Mavericks, could see himself returning to basketball as coach or manager in a few years time, the German said.The 40-year-old future Hall of Famer ended his sparkling career last week after more than two decades at the Mavericks with whom he was crowned NBA champion in 2011 and was a 14-time All Star."After one or two years I can see myself being happy... as a coach or a manager," Nowitzki told Germany's Die Zeit newspaper in an interview to be published on Wednesday."I would like to be a mentor for a young player and... accompany them through their career in my very own way."For now, Nowitzki is content to put his feet up and enjoy a glass of wine and a slice of cake, something he could not do for years as a professional player."In the past week I had some cake and I also had my first glass of wine after 10 years of abstinence," he said. "I was really warm inside after only a few sips. That felt good."Nowitzki holds the record for having played the most seasons for the same club and is sixth in the all-time scorers list of the NBA.Nagging injuries, however, took their toll on his body and continuing his career past the current season was impossible."What I did not want to happen under any circumstance was to say goodbye and be sitting at home, thinking 'damn, you would really like to play now. Why did you do this'," he said."But my body was not good. To be honest my foot where I had surgery last year was not well throughout the year. I knew it would not be getting any better." (Reporting by Karolos Grohmann; Editing by Christian Radnedge)
DURHAM, N.C. — Zion Williamson is leaving Duke after one high-flying season to enter the NBA draft.Widely projected as the top overall pick in the June draft, the AP national player of the year announced his decision Monday.The 6-foot-7, 285-pound Williamson captivated all of college basketball with his freakish, once-in-a-generation athleticism, his energy at both ends of the floor and his omnipresent charisma.The Atlantic Coast Conference player and rookie of the year averaged 22.6 points — tied for the league lead with teammate RJ Barrett — and 8.9 rebounds. Along the way, he became the face of college basketball this season, routinely coming up with at least one highlight-reel play or show-stopping dunk per game.His decision to turn pro came as no surprise. In fact, he spent the season greeting NBA chatter with a playful wink and a knowing nod.He said it would be "dope" to play on a hypothetical New York Knicks team with Kyrie Irving and Kevin Durant. Upon learning that LeBron James and Stephen Curry were talking about him during All-Star weekend, he responded that he's "hoping to be there competing against them next year."During his lone college season, he helped the Blue Devils earn the No. 1 ranking in the final AP Top 25 and the top overall seed in the NCAA Tournament. Duke was knocked out by Michigan State in the East Regional final.Now that he's headed to the NBA, one key subplot to follow is which sneaker company will land his endorsement.In one of the signature moments of the season, Williamson blew out his left Nike shoe — the PG 2.5, the signature shoe of Oklahoma City star Paul George — and sprained his right knee in the opening minute of what became a lopsided home loss to rival North Carolina.The impact was immediate — Nike's stock price took a hit the next day, and the shoe company sent a team of representatives to campus to investigate. When Williamson returned roughly three weeks later for the ACC Tournament, he wore a pair of modified size-15 Nikes from the signature line of Irving, a Boston Celtics All-Star and former one-and-done player at Duke.Williamson joins Cam Reddish and Barrett as classmates headed to the pros after one season. Point guard Tre Jones says he will return to school for his sophomore year.___
Speaking to local media around midday Thursday, Memphis Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace said he hadn't talked with team owner Robert Pera yet, but he could make one declaration: Head coach J.B. Bickerstaff would return for a second season. Two hours later, that decision had changed, and several other moves were made.The Grizzlies fired Bickerstaff and demoted Wallace to a scouting role.Memphis also named Jason Wexler as team president with "oversight of both business and basketball operations," the team said in a statement. The Grizzlies promoted Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations, with former VP John Hollinger reassigned to a senior advisory position."In order to put our team on the path to sustainable success, it was necessary to change our approach to basketball operations," Pera said in a statement. "I look forward to a reenergized front office and fresh approach to Memphis Grizzlies basketball under new leadership, while retaining the identity and values that have distinguished our team."--Sacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said.Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs. The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final postseason spot in the West.--Larry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed to part ways."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.--Cardiologists have cleared Chicago Bulls forward Lauri Markkanen to resume full basketball activities, the team announced.Markkanen, 21, experienced extreme fatigue and an accelerated heart rate during a game in Toronto on March 26. A battery of tests conducted at Chicago's Rush University Medical Center and Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore determined that dehydration and nutrient deficiency caused his symptoms.The 7-footer missed the rest of the regular season, finishing his second campaign with averages of 18.7 points and 9.0 rebounds in 52 games.--The Phoenix Suns officially named James Jones as general manager, giving him control over all basketball operations for the team.The Suns also added Jeff Bower as senior vice president of basketball operations and retained Trevor Bukstein as assistant general manager. Both will report to Jones, the team announced in a statement.
Count Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James among those who were stunned by team president Magic Johnson's resignation on Tuesday night. But according to ESPN's Ramona Shelburne on Wednesday, James still stands behind the organization and Lakers owner Jeanie Buss.ESPN also reported that head coach Luke Walton participated in exit meetings with the players on Wednesday. Walton's job security is in jeopardy after the Lakers (37-45) missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season despite the offseason signing of James to a four-year, $154 million deal.James, 34, battled injuries and appeared in a career-low 55 games and averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists per game in 2018-19.--Following his meeting with Walton, James headed to New York, where he, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony watched Dwyane Wade play his final NBA game. The Miami Heat closed out the season against the Brooklyn Nets.After a pregame video tribute to Wade, the retiring superstar went over and hugged each of his three friends. The four have been friends for years, their bond immortalized by a photo of James, Wade and Paul riding a banana boat together while on vacation in 2015. Anthony was not in the picture but was also on vacation with the group.--Boston Celtics guard Marcus Smart has a torn left oblique and could miss the first two rounds of the Eastern Conference playoffs, according to a report from ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski.Smart averaged 8.9 points, 4.0 assists and 2.9 rebounds this season for the Celtics, who will be the fourth seed in the East after posting a 49-33 regular-season record. Boston will open at home this weekend against the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers. The physical guard is noted as one of the NBA's top defenders.Smart sustained the injury in a game against the Orlando Magic on Sunday, and he did not play in Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.--Anthony Davis acknowledged that despite his desire to leave New Orleans, he could begin the 2019-20 season with the Pelicans."I'm under contract still," Davis said during an informal season-ending news conference. "I have a year left. Obviously it's a possibility it could happen. I don't have ill will toward anybody. I know that it's a possibility that next year I could be here as well. So I can't be mad if I'm here next year."Davis said his next step will be to see who emerges as the general manager for the Pelicans. Dell Demps was fired in February after his handling of the Davis situation, and Danny Ferry is the interim general manager.--The Phoenix Suns have hired longtime NBA general manager Jeff Bower as their vice president of operations, Wojnarowski reported.Bower, 57, was general manager of the then-New Orleans Hornets from October 2005 to July 2010, and he also served as the team's head coach for most of the 2009-10 season after the firing of Byron Scott.The Suns have been without a general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.--The Minnesota Timberwolves plan to offer interim coach Ryan Saunders a multiyear deal as early as this week, league sources told ESPN.
MINNEAPOLIS — Jarrett Culver knew Texas Tech desperately needed him to make a big leap after a solid freshman year so he charged full-speed into an offseason determined to refine and expand every element of his game.De'Andre Hunter needed a little longer to do the same at Virginia, even by spending a year as a redshirt watching from the sidelines.Yet here they are in Minneapolis, a pair of players who have blossomed into bonafide NBA prospects for teams a win away from becoming a first-time national champion. Consider it proof — or maybe simply a needed reminder — that college players can still take a slightly longer path to becoming top-tier NBA prospects amid the college game's starry-eyed infatuation with one-and-done talents."You can do that," Culver said Sunday, the day before his Red Raiders meet Hunter's Cavaliers in the national-title game. "The one-and-dones, they're very talented guys coming out of high school and they get looked at a lot. My route was just a little different. I don't know how long I'll be in college. I just know if you put the work in and set your goals, you can do whatever you set your mind to."Look, no one is going to confuse Culver and Hunter for flashier players with tantalizing upside like Duke's Zion Williamson this season or Arizona's Deandre Ayton a year earlier. Yet Culver, a 6-foot-5 sophomore, is the undisputed first (maybe second and third, as well) offensive option with enough versatility to lead the defensively inclined Red Raiders in scoring, rebounding and assists.As for Hunter, the 6-7 redshirt sophomore has developed into a more assertive scorer with 3-point range. Yet it's his defensive versatility that stands out with his ability to defend inside or out — he even checked talented North Carolina freshman point guard Coby White late in a February road win — as the Division I defensive player of the year for the National Association of Basketball Coaches.Check any mock draft, and their names are easy to find. Both are frequently listed among the top 10 picks if they entered the NBA draft after the season ends. And it's likely they'll be matched up against each other at least during some during Monday night's championship game."They'll both be (high) if they both come out, but this is not a great year for the draft," ESPN analyst Jay Bilas said. "You've obviously got the super talent in the top five, the top four. But who knows where they'd go in another year? I think they're first-round talents in most any year."That's what's going to cause a number of players to come out this year: they want to go higher, they would go higher this year than perhaps in another one. Not these two, these two are legit."That's not to say either has been flawless in the NCAA Tournament.Culver averaged 21.5 points through the four-game push through the West Region, but was quiet nearly all Saturday night before scoring seven of his 10 points in the final three minutes to help Texas Tech hold off Michigan State's rally.As for Hunter, he had a rough two-game set in the regionals by making just 8 of 23 shots (34.7 followed by an ineffective first half in Saturday's first national semifinal against Auburn before playing far more assertively after the break."I think he's hard on himself," Virginia coach Tony Bennett said. "If he's missing shots or not helping his team, he puts a lot on himself. We talked about it: 'Be free, man. Go after this. We need you.'"Consider it the next phase of Hunter's growth as a player."I just try to live up to my my own expectations," Hunter said. "I know how hard I work, I know the things I do every day. It gets kind of frustrating at times but I just try to get back to doing what I do and playing the game free."
In the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points. At age 39, he became the oldest player ever to reach 50 in an NBA game.Heat 122, 76ers 99Dwyane Wade, playing the final home game of his NBA career, scored 30 points to lead Miami over Philadelphia.Wade made 10 of 23 shots, including 4 of 10 on attempts from beyond the arc. It was his second-highest scoring game of the season. But it was a bittersweet night for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention earlier in the evening when the Detroit Pistons rallied from a 22-point deficit to defeat the Memphis Grizzlies.Philadelphia, which has already clinched the third seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs, rested two of its stars: Joel Embiid, who was listed as having a knee injury, and JJ Redick (back).Warriors 112, Pelicans 103DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds against his former team as visiting Golden State defeated New Orleans.After clinching home-court advantage throughout the Western Conference playoffs on Sunday, the Warriors had Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson, Andre Iguodala and Andrew Bogut among their inactive players. Stephen Curry left for game after scoring five points in nine minutes in what the Warriors called "a precaution" after he sustained a mild foot sprain.Jahlil Okafor scored 30 points to lead the short-handed Pelicans, who dressed just eight players and finished the season 33-49.Raptors 120, Timberwolves 100Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points as visiting Toronto completed its regular-season schedule with a victory over Minnesota.The Raptors (58-24) secured the second-best record in the Eastern Conference with the win, behind only the Milwaukee Bucks (60-21), who play their final game Wednesday.
Kentucky freshman guard Tyler Herro on Wednesday announced his intention to declare for the NBA draft via a social media post but left his options open for a return to the school.Herro said he will work with an agent, within new eligibility rules, in order to get feedback from teams on where he might land in the draft. If his draft stock is not as high as he had hoped, he said he will return to the Kentucky program."If the evaluations tell me I need to elevate my game further, I would be thrilled to return to Kentucky and help this team compete for a championship," Herro said in a statement. "Whatever happens over the next couple of months, I want to thank (Kentucky fans) for (their) support this season and throughout this process."Herro averaged 14.0 points this past season, second on the Wildcats. He led the team with 60 made 3-pointers, while shooting 93.5 percent from the free throw line, a Kentucky single-season record. He led the Wildcats with 32.6 minutes per game.The 6-foot-5, 195-pounder was a five-star recruit out of Whitnall High School in the Milwaukee area, where he was first team all-state in Wisconsin and averaged 32.9 points per game.Kentucky coach John Calipari offered his support to Herro via a Twitter post Friday."What I'm most proud of is how Tyler became not only an efficient offensive player but an efficient defensive player," Calipari wrote. "He's wired and driven like only a few others I've coached. I've had an absolute ball coaching him. Whatever he decides to do in the end, I will support."--Field Level Media
There are two very compelling reasons why Orlando has Toronto's attention.Or 31 of them, perhaps.The Raptors lost to the Magic twice this season. And Milwaukee, Toronto and Orlando all were tied for the Eastern Conference's best record over the final 31 games of the season — all going 22-9 down the stretch. So when the Raptors play host to the Magic on Saturday in Game 1 of an Eastern Conference first-round series, Toronto expects a red-hot opponent."They're playing very well," Raptors coach Nick Nurse said. "Very well coached. They've got some metrics that speak volumes about who they are. They don't turn the ball over, they don't give up transition baskets, they don't let you get offensive rebounds. They're very methodical in their offensive execution. ... And they're long, man. They're long and athletic."It's a good squad we're playing."Toronto came into this season with the highest of expectations, especially after getting Kawhi Leonard over the summer. The Raptors delivered in the regular season, managing Leonard's workload — he played only 60 games — while still finishing with the second-best record in the NBA."Nothing matters until now," Raptors guard Kyle Lowry said. "Now — this is what matters."The Magic were no playoff lock. They looked like the season was over at the end of January. But their turnaround has been stellar, and for the first time since 2012, the playoffs are their reward.Magic coach Steve Clifford said he has a simple message to his team: "Play our game.""You don't want to change," Clifford said. "You play well for a certain reason. What you're not going to do is reinvent yourself because it's a playoff game. Play the way we play. Play the way we've played this last 31 games. That's what we need to do."The Raptors won't be at full strength for Game 1, and probably won't be for a while.Key reserve OG Anunoby had an emergency appendectomy Thursday night in Toronto, after being diagnosed with acute appendicitis. There's no timetable for his return — and the Raptors are still without Patrick McCaw, who's sidelined with a thumb injury.But Leonard is full-go, and feeling good as well."We did a good job," Leonard said of the season-long load-management plan for him. "Nothing flared up or got worse. The way I'm feeling today, I feel like we did a great job."Magic center Nikola Vucevic said he has sensed a real change in his team over the final 31 games.
Jayson Tatum buried a go-ahead 3-pointer with 50.8 seconds remaining Wednesday night, allowing the host Boston Celtics to overcome a late Indiana Pacers flurry and pull out a 99-91 victory in Game 2 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.With the fourth-seeded Celtics having successfully held serve on their home court to go up 2-0 in the best-of-seven set, the fifth-seeded Pacers will host Games 3 and 4 on Friday night and Sunday afternoon.Indiana blew a 12-point, fourth-quarter lead. However, the Pacers appeared primed to even the series when Wesley Matthews and Bojan Bogdanovic combined for three 3-pointers in a 70-second spurt, allowing Indiana to retake a 91-89 advantage with 2:16 to go.But the Pacers didn't score again, and the Celtics finally did when Tatum drilled his third 3-pointer of the game for a one-point lead in the final minute. The Celtics scored the game's final 10 points.Rockets 118, Jazz 98James Harden posted his third career postseason triple-double, and Houston recorded another rout of visiting Utah in Game 2 of a Western Conference first-round series.Harden totaled 32 points, 13 rebounds and 10 assists in the wire-to-wire victory. After Utah utilized an unorthodox defensive approach against Harden in the series opener, Harden exploded for 25 first-half points Wednesday on 8-of-15 shooting, including 5-of-9 accuracy on 3-point attempts.He finished 11 of 24 from the floor, 6 of 13 from long distance. Harden, however, did commit a game-high eight turnovers. The Rockets will take a 2-0 series lead to Salt Lake City for Game 3 on Saturday.Bucks 120, Pistons 99Giannis Antetokounmpo sparked the decisive run in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference first-round series, scoring Milwaukee's first seven points of the second half in a win over visiting Detroit.The top-seeded Bucks lead the best-of-seven series two games to none. Game 3 is scheduled for Saturday in Detroit, where the eighth-seeded Pistons will try to snap a 12-game postseason losing streak that dates back to 2008. That's tied for the second-longest postseason losing streak in NBA history, behind only the New York Knicks' 13 consecutive losses from 2001-12.Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points during a third quarter in which the Bucks outscored the Pistons 35-17. He also grabbed a team-high 12 rebounds.--Field Level Media
INDEPENDENCE, Ohio — The Cavaliers aren't chasing a championship this spring. They're pursuing a coach.This time, methodically.No longer NBA title contenders, Cleveland is in the initial stages of an expansive, open-minded search general manager Koby Altman hopes will lead to finding the right coach for his young team, which is coming off a 63-loss season."We have to preach patience and we have to continue to grow this thing and we have to find a leader that's obsessed with that process of growing," Altman said Friday while outlining the type of candidates he'll interview. "We're tasked with doing that. We're excited about the next steps. We're done in April for the first time in four years, so we have a lot of time."At this time a year ago, the Cavs were preparing to make another deep playoff run. They made the Finals for the fourth straight year, but fell short in June against Golden State and then suffered a more devastating blow when LeBron James left a month later. The team endured severe growing pains this past season, which included a coaching change and countless injuries, but Altman believes better days lie ahead."The future is bright," he said.His task is finding the right coach to lead the Cavs into it.Altman plans to cast a "wide net" in his search for the fifth coach since 2013. He and his staff are paring down a list of potential candidates that will include former head coaches, current assistants — including some on playoff teams — as well as college coaches of both sexes. Head coaching experience is a plus, but not essential, and he's not limiting the search to candidates with whom he has a previous connection.Already, names are beginning to surface, including several assistants who have ties to the Cavs.Denver's Jordi Fernandez, Utah's Alex Jensen, Orlando's Steve Hetzel, Atlanta's Chris Jent, Portland's Nate Tibbetts and Dallas' Jamahl Mosley all spent time working for Cleveland. Altman intimated continuing the Cavs' rebuild with a person already familiar with the organization would be beneficial.Luke Walton could now be on Cleveland's radar after he parted ways with the Los Angeles Lakers, and Altman said he would be "open-minded" when asked about San Antonio's Becky Hammon, the league's first full-time female assistant.The timetable to find a coach? As long as it takes, Altman said."We want to make sure we get this right," he said. "We want to make sure we get to know these candidates really, really well and flush this thing out. Make sure it's the right fit for the front office, for our players, for the fan base. We want availability, grinding and all that kind of stuff. We want to make sure that's the right fit and we're the right fit for them, too."When Altman gets toward the final stages of the process, he said he may consult with Cavs players. Altman said his primary objective is landing a coach dedicated to development."It's important that we find a leader that's in it for the long haul, that really wants to be a part of Cleveland, our city and this team and help us grow every day," he said. "I think we have to be obsessed with this process of getting better and not so much results-driven — and that's the person I need to find."
Pascal Siakam confidently launches shots he may not have dared attempt in previous seasons. He makes plays during times of the game when he would have been sitting on the bench.The Toronto Raptors forward might be the leading candidate for the most improved player award and he'd like to win it. But he's already received recognition that means more to him.Fellow players have noticed how much work he's put in and how much it has paid off this season. The acknowledgement from All-Stars such as Paul George and Bradley Beal shows that Siakam's giant leap has caught the attention of more than just the media panel that votes for the NBA awards."I just enjoy sometimes after the games, guys coming up to me and showing respect for me. That's the most important thing," Siakam said. "Like, I don't care about the rest. I think when your peers respect your game and respect the fact that they've seen you work, I think that's more important."There's a lot for them to have noticed, including:— Siakam's scoring. It is up from 6.0 points per game through his first two seasons to 17.0 this season.— His 3-point shooting. That's jumped from 21.6 percent to 36.8 percent.A player who was feared almost entirely for his work around the basket now has to be accounted for even when he's away from it. Brooklyn coach Kenny Atkinson called Siakam an X-factor who now demands a much bigger part of the scouting report."It changes because he's shooting the ball better," Atkinson said. "I think at first you could ignore his shot. Now it's like you've got to respect him from 3 and I know he's worked on it extremely hard, so that changes it."You could be in the paint, wait for his drives. You still have to respect (that) but I think he keeps getting better and better."D'Angelo Russell, Atkinson's All-Star point guard, might be the other top candidate for most improved player after leading the Nets to a surprising playoff berth. Sacramento's De'Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield, Denver's Malik Beasley and the Clippers' Montrezl Harrell are some other players worthy of consideration.But of them, Siakam has the biggest role on the team with the best chance to be playing into June.The Raptors made major changes after they were swept out of the postseason by LeBron James and Cleveland in consecutive years. Dwane Casey was fired even after winning coach of the year honors, and All-Star DeMar DeRozan was dealt to San Antonio in the trade to bring in Kawhi Leonard.The Raptors have come back with 57 wins and the second-best record in the East, with Siakam's growth central to their success. He can play in a traditional big lineup alongside Leonard and center Marc Gasol, or in a smaller one if they go with Serge Ibaka in the middle.The athleticism was always there for the 6-foot-9 forward. But now it's only part of the package for a player who made one 3-pointer his entire rookie season in 2016-17 and now averages one per game, the easiest place to notice his improvement.
The Golden State Warriors celebrated their final regular-season game in Oracle Arena with a third-quarter explosion Sunday night, producing a 131-104 win over the Los Angeles Clippers in Oakland, Calif., that clinched top seeding throughout the Western Conference playoffs.The win was Golden State's fifth in a row and 30th of the season at home. The Warriors' first-round opponent, which will be the eighth seed in the West, has yet to be determined. The playoffs begin next Saturday.The Clippers' third straight loss dropped them to 47-34 and closer to a first-round matchup with the Warriors. The Clippers are battling Oklahoma City (47-33) and San Antonio (47-34), both of which won Sunday, for the sixth, seventh and eighth playoff spots in the West.Curry finished with a game-high 27 points for the Warriors, who improved their all-time regular-season record at Oracle Arena to 1,166-770. Like the Warriors, all five Clippers starters scored in double figures, led by Landry Shamet with 17. All but two of Shamet's points came on 5-for-6 3-point shooting.Trail Blazers 115, Nuggets 108Damian Lillard scored 30 points, and Al-Farouq Aminu added a season-high 23 points and 11 rebounds as Portland rallied for a victory over visiting Denver.The Trail Blazers closed the game on a 17-3 run to register their ninth win in the last 11 games. CJ McCollum made his return to the Portland lineup after missing 10 games with a knee injury. McCollum collected nine points, six rebounds and six assists in 25 minutes.Gary Harris scored 18 points to lead Denver, which won the season series with Portland 3-1. The Nuggets played without center Nikola Jokic, forward Paul Millsap and guard Jamal Murray, all given the night off for rest. They need to win their final two games, or get one win and a Rockets loss in their finale at the Thunder, to secure the West's No. 2 seed.Bucks 115, Hawks 107Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 30 points with nine rebounds, and Khris Middleton added 21 as Milwaukee recorded its first 60-victory season since 1980-81 in beating visiting Atlanta.Antetokounmpo, who is now six points away from 2,000 for the second consecutive season, was back on the court for the Eastern Conference champions after missing Saturday's game against the Brooklyn Nets because of a sore left calf.Alex Len scored a career-high 33 points for the Hawks, who were playing without starters John Collins (ankle) and Trae Young (wrist). DeAndre' Bembry added 13 points for Atlanta, which already has been eliminated from playoff contention.Nets 108, Pacers 96D'Angelo Russell scored 20 points, and Brooklyn clinched its first playoff berth since 2015 by leading most of the way in a win over host Indiana.The Nets clinched at least the seventh seed after the Detroit Pistons lost to the Charlotte Hornets earlier Sunday, and could have secured the No. 6 seed if Orlando had lost its game at Boston later on Sunday. Russell shot 7-for-15 and made a 3-pointer for the 60th straight game.
Luke Kennard scored 27 points off the bench and the postseason-bound Detroit Pistons closed out their regular season finale by walloping the host New York Knicks 115-89 on Wednesday.The Pistons (41-41) qualified for the Eastern Conference playoffs for just the second time since the 2009-10 season. They were swept by Cleveland in the opening round of the 2015-16 playoffs.Detroit will be the No. 8 seed and face top-seeded Milwaukee in the first round.Kennard's point total was one shy of his career high. Reggie Jackson had 21 points and Andre Drummond supplied 20 points and 18 rebounds for Detroit. Wayne Ellington tossed in 12 points, all on 3-point makes.Heat 113, Nets 94Dwyane Wade ended his storied career with a triple-double of 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists as visiting Miami was dealt a loss to Brooklyn, which clinched sixth place in the Eastern Conference.The Nets honored Wade with a video tribute in pregame introductions by highlighting some of his notable shots against them over the course of a 16-year career while the text on the screen read "Thanks for the Memories."With longtime friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony sitting courtside, Wade recorded his fifth career triple-double in his 1,054th regular-season game since entering the league as the fifth overall pick out of Marquette in 2003.Spurs 105, Mavericks 94LaMarcus Aldridge poured in 34 points and totaled 16 rebounds to help propel San Antonio to a resounding win over visiting Dallas in the regular-season finale for both teams.It was also the final game in the 21-year career of Dallas forward Dirk Nowitzki, who led Dallas with 20 points and pulled down 10 rebounds in 31 minutes of play before leaving the court for the final time with 47 seconds remaining.The win was San Antonio's third straight and -- combined with Oklahoma City's win over Milwaukee -- earned the Spurs the seventh seed in the NBA playoffs, where they will face the Denver Nuggets. Dallas, playing the second game of an emotional home-road back-to-back, had a two-game winning streak snapped and they will miss the postseason for the third straight season.Trail Blazers 136, Kings 131Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a season-high 37 points to lift Portland to a come-from-behind victory over visiting Sacramento.Skal Labissiere added 29 points and 15 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who trailed by as many as 28 points in the first half.
Jamal Murray scored 21 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter, and the host Denver Nuggets rallied from down 19 to beat the San Antonio Spurs 114-105 in Game 2 of their Western Conference first-round playoff series on Tuesday night.Nikola Jokic had 21 points, 13 rebounds and eight assists, Gary Harris scored 23 points, and Paul Millsap had 20 points for Denver. The Nuggets tied the series 1-1 and ended San Antonio's seven-game playoff winning streak in Denver.DeMar DeRozan scored 31 points and LaMarcus Aldridge had 24 points for the Spurs.Murray, who missed his first eight shots, hit five consecutive shots in the fourth quarter, including two straight and a pair of free throws that gave Denver a 99-97 lead, its first advantage since 17-16. The Nuggets were ahead by three before Murray drained two 3-pointers to make it 110-101.Raptors 111, Magic 82Kawhi Leonard scored 37 points on 15-for-22 shooting from the field, and Toronto defeated visiting Orlando to even its first-round Eastern Conference playoff series at one game apiece.Pascal Siakam added 19 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors, who never trailed. Kyle Lowry contributed 22 points and seven assists for Toronto while Serge Ibaka chipped in with 13 points and eight rebounds off the bench.Aaron Gordon scored 20 points for the Magic, who split the regular-season series 2-2 with the Raptors. Terrence Ross added 15 points for Orlando while Evan Fournier scored 10 points.Trail Blazers 114, Thunder 94CJ McCollum and Damian Lillard combined for 62 points as Portland swept to a victory over visiting Oklahoma City.McCollum scored 33 points and Lillard added 29 as the Trail Blazers seized a 2-0 lead in the first-round Western Conference playoff series. Maurice Harkless chipped in 14 points and nine rebounds for Portland, which led by as many as 22 points in the fourth quarter.Paul George tallied 27 points with eight rebounds for the Thunder, who led by as many as 10 points in the first half. Russell Westbrook collected 14 points, 11 assists and nine boards for Oklahoma City but shot only 5 of 20 from the field.--Field Level Media
Kyrie Irving had a hand in 11 of Boston's final 16 points Friday night as the Celtics withstood a late charge by the Indiana Pacers to record a 104-96 win at Indianapolis and go up 3-0 in an Eastern Conference first-round playoff matchup.The Pacers, playing at home for the first time in the series, got within 88-87 with 6:05, but that's when Irving took over.He had two hoops, assisted on 3- and 2-point baskets by Al Horford and made two free throws down the stretch, helping the Celtics pull away. He finished with 19 points and 10 assists. Jaylen Brown had 23 points to lead the Celtics, who held the Pacers under 100 points for the third consecutive game.Tyreke Evans led seven Pacers in double figures with 19 points off the bench.Thunder 120, Trail Blazers 108Russell Westbrook scored 33 points as Oklahoma City beat visiting Portland to take a two-games-to-one lead in a Western Conference first-round playoff series.After vowing to play better following the Thunder's Game 2 loss, Westbrook shot 11 of 22 from the floor while adding 11 assists and five rebounds. He also made 4 of 6 3-point attempts after sinking just 1 of 10 long-range attempts over the first two games.Portland's Damian Lillard had a quiet first half, scoring only four points on 2-of-6 shooting. However, Lillard dominated in Portland's 43-point third quarter, scoring 25 points to make a game of it. Lillard, who finished with a team-high 32 points, shot 8 of 11 from the floor in the third. But he did not score in the fourth until less than two minutes remained and the Thunder were ahead by 12.Raptors 98, Magic 93Pascal Siakam scored a playoff-career-best 30 points and grabbed 11 rebounds as visiting Toronto won in Orlando to take a 2-1 lead in their first-round Eastern Conference playoff series.Kawhi Leonard added 16 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors while Danny Green scored 13 points and Kyle Lowry had 12 points and 10 assists.Nikola Vucevic scored 22 points and grabbed 14 rebounds points for the Magic. Terrence Ross added 24 points, Jonathan Isaac scored 14, and Aaron Gordon had 10.--Field Level Media
Ben Simmons scored a playoff-career-high 31 points and handed out nine assists to lead the visiting Philadelphia 76ers past the Brooklyn Nets 131-115 on Thursday in New York for a 2-1 lead in an Eastern Conference opening-round playoff series.Simmons, whose wayward shooting was the subject of a "Missing" poster outside of Barclays Center pregame, made 11 of 13 attempts from the field and 9 of 11 from the foul line.Tobias Harris also scored a playoff-career-high, adding 29 points to go along with 16 rebounds, and JJ Redick added 26 points for Philadelphia.Sixers center Joel Embiid was scratched before the game due to left knee soreness. Greg Monroe, who signed late in the regular season, received the emergency start in place of Embiid and contributed nine points and 13 boards.Warriors 132, Clippers 105Kevin Durant exploded for 38 points, and Golden State never let up after building an early lead, cruising to a win at Los Angeles to take a 2-1 edge in their Western Conference first-round playoff series.The Warriors, who blew a 31-point, second-half lead in Game 3, ran up 41 first-quarter points, building as much as a 19-point advantage in the first 12 minutes.Stephen Curry, who battled foul trouble most of the night, complemented Durant with 21 points in 20 minutes for the Warriors. Ivica Zubac had a team-high 18 points to go with a game-high 15 rebounds for the Clippers.Spurs 118, Nuggets 108Derrick White poured in a career-high 36 points on 15-of-21 shooting to lift San Antonio to a win over visiting Denver in Game 3 of a Western Conference first-round playoff series.San Antonio, the seventh seed in the West, grabbed a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven series. The Spurs led just 89-87 in the first minute of the fourth quarter before they pulled away, forging a 19-4 run that was capped by a White 3-pointer with 5:57 left that gave San Antonio a 108-91 advantage.DeMar DeRozan added 25 points, 21 of those in the second half, while LaMarcus Aldridge contributed 18 points and 11 rebounds for the Spurs. Nikola Jokic paced Denver with 22 points, and Malik Beasley added 20.--Field Level Media
Giannis Antetokounmpo racked up 24 points, 17 rebounds and four assists in only 23 minutes as the top-seeded Milwaukee Bucks overwhelmed the visiting Detroit Pistons 121-86 in their Eastern Conference playoff opener on Sunday.George Hill had 16 points off the bench for the Bucks, who led by 27 at halftime. Eric Bledsoe scored 15 points, Brook Lopez and Khris Middleton had 14 apiece, and Sterling Brown added 11 along with a team-high seven assists.Pistons center Andre Drummond was ejected with 4:07 remaining in the third quarter for shoving Antetokounmpo to the floor. The two-handed push occurred after Antetokounmpo grabbed an offensive rebound. Drummond finished with 12 points and 12 rebounds.Luke Kennard's 21 points off the bench topped Detroit, which played without All-Star forward Blake Griffin. He was sidelined by a sore left knee, which also kept him out of four of the last seven regular-season games. The Bucks were without guards Malcolm Brogdon (foot) and Tony Snell (ankle).Trail Blazers 104, Thunder 99Damian Lillard scored 30 points as Portland held off visiting Oklahoma City to win the opener of their first-round playoff series.CJ McCollum added 24 points, and Enes Kanter contributed 20 points and 18 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who led by as many as 19 points in the first half. The lead shrunk to as few as three points in the fourth quarter, but Oklahoma City never had possession with a chance to tie.Paul George collected 26 points and 10 rebounds, and Russell Westbrook compiled 24 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists for the Thunder, who made only 5 of 33 3-point attempts in the game.Celtics 84, Pacers 74Boston held visiting Indiana without a field goal for the first 8 1/2 minutes of the second half, rallying from a halftime deficit for a victory in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.After failing to make even one-third of their shots in the first half while falling behind 45-38, the fourth-seeded Celtics became a defensive force in the third quarter. The Pacers, seeded fifth in the East, missed their first seven shots of the second half and mixed in three turnovers as their seven-point lead turned into a 47-45 deficit.Kyrie Irving and Marcus Morris scored 20 points apiece for Boston, which won handily despite shooting just 36.4 percent. Cory Joseph led Indiana with 14 points, and Bojan Bogdanovic had 12, as the Pacers shot 33.3 percent for the game overall.--Field Level Media
Giannis Antetokounmpo racked up 24 points, 17 rebounds and four assists in only 23 minutes as the top-seeded Milwaukee Bucks overwhelmed the visiting Detroit Pistons 121-86 in their Eastern Conference playoff opener on Sunday.George Hill had 16 points off the bench for the Bucks, who led by 27 at halftime. Eric Bledsoe scored 15 points, Brook Lopez and Khris Middleton had 14 apiece, and Sterling Brown added 11 along with a team-high seven assists.Pistons center Andre Drummond was ejected with 4:07 remaining in the third quarter for shoving Antetokounmpo to the floor. The two-handed push occurred after Antetokounmpo grabbed an offensive rebound. Drummond finished with 12 points and 12 rebounds.Luke Kennard's 21 points off the bench topped Detroit, which played without All-Star forward Blake Griffin. He was sidelined by a sore left knee, which also kept him out of four of the last seven regular-season games. The Bucks were without guards Malcolm Brogdon (foot) and Tony Snell (ankle).Rockets 122, Jazz 90James Harden and Clint Capela posted double-doubles, and Houston rolled to a victory in Game 1 of its first-round series with visiting Utah.Harden paired 29 points with 10 assists and finished two rebounds shy of a triple-double to fuel the Rockets to a 1-0 series lead. Capela added 16 points and 12 rebounds while grappling with Jazz center Rudy Gobert (22 points, 12 rebounds).Houston made headway by holding its own on the glass and defending with vigor, limiting Utah guard Donovan Mitchell to 19 points on 7-of-18 shooting and the Jazz to 39.0 percent shooting. Utah finished just 7-for-27 on 3-pointers and committed 19 turnovers.Trail Blazers 104, Thunder 99Damian Lillard scored 30 points as Portland held off visiting Oklahoma City to win the opener of their first-round playoff series.CJ McCollum added 24 points, and Enes Kanter contributed 20 points and 18 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who led by as many as 19 points in the first half. The lead shrunk to as few as three points in the fourth quarter, but Oklahoma City never had possession with a chance to tie.Paul George collected 26 points and 10 rebounds, and Russell Westbrook compiled 24 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists for the Thunder, who made only 5 of 33 3-point attempts in the game.Celtics 84, Pacers 74Boston held visiting Indiana without a field goal for the first 8 1/2 minutes of the second half, rallying from a halftime deficit for a victory in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.After failing to make even one-third of their shots in the first half while falling behind 45-38, the fourth-seeded Celtics became a defensive force in the third quarter. The Pacers, seeded fifth in the East, missed their first seven shots of the second half and mixed in three turnovers as their seven-point lead turned into a 47-45 deficit.
Luke Walton and the Kings have agreed to a multi-year contract to make him Sacramento's next coach, The Athletic reported.Walton met with Kings general manager Vlade Divac on Saturday, and The Athletic's Sam Amick reported the two had reached agreement on a deal that is expected to run through the 2022-23 season.ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski said an official announcement could come this weekend.The Los Angeles Lakers and Walton, 39, parted ways on Friday. He compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as the Lakers' head coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three campaigns.--The Lakers, meanwhile, received permission to discuss their opening for head coach with Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams, ESPN reported, citing league sources.The Lakers are focusing on Williams and former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue, and general manager Rob Pelinka plans to speak with each candidate in the near future, league sources told ESPN.After spending the previous two years in the San Antonio Spurs' front office following the death of his wife Ingrid in 2016, Williams got back into coaching as Brett Brown's top assistant with the 76ers.--The 76ers fined veteran center Amir Johnson an undisclosed amount for showing teammate Joel Embiid his cell phone on the bench late in a 111-102 loss to the Brooklyn Nets in Game 1 of their playoff series.TV cameras caught Johnson on the bench in the fourth quarter, when the 76ers were 16 points down and he was scrolling through his phone. After showing Embiid something on his phone, Johnson put it into the pocket of his warm-ups."I apologize for having my phone on the bench in today's game," Johnson said in a statement released hours after the game by the 76ers. "I take full responsibility and will accept the consequences of my actions. I also apologize to my teammates, the 76ers organization and the fans for the distraction this has caused."--Milwaukee Bucks forward Nikola Mirotic is expected to return from a thumb injury to play in Game 1 of the first-round series against the Detroit Pistons on Sunday.Mirotic missed the final 11 games of the regular season after fracturing his left thumb during a March 19 game against the Los Angeles Lakers.Mirotic fully participated in Friday's practice and took part in Saturday's non-contact practice. He had his thumb taped during both workouts.--The Washington Wizards announced they will not make a qualifying offer to free agent forward Devin Robinson after he was apparently arrested late Friday."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend a qualifying offer to him for the 2019-20 season," it read.
MINNEAPOLIS — The longest active streak of missing the NBA playoffs belongs to Sacramento, where general manager Vlade Divac has been trying to return the Kings to the league's elite over the last four seasons.Back when the slick-passing Serbian big man was in the paint, the Kings had quite the run. For his impact on the NBA as one of the pioneering Eastern Europeans, Divac was announced Saturday as one of the 12 honorees in the 2019 class of the Basketball Hall of Fame."We created something special there, the first day of training camp that led us," said Divac, who played for Sacramento from 1998-2004, with a peak in 2002 when the Kings lost to the Los Angeles Lakers in overtime of Game 7 of the Western Conference finals. "For six years, we were the most exciting team in the league and really played basketball the right way."The class will be enshrined at the Hall of Fame in Springfield, Massachusetts, on Sept. 6. Selected this year with Divac were NBA players Carl Braun, Chuck Cooper, Bobby Jones, Sidney Moncrief, Jack Sikma and Paul Westphal, NBA coach Bill Fitch, NBA contributor Al Attles, WNBA player Teresa Weatherspoon, the 1957-59 teams from Tennessee A&I and the Wayland Baptist University program.Divac, who was elected directly by the international committee, played 16 years in the NBA, including eight with the Lakers. The 7-foot-1 Divac had his jersey retired by the Kings after helping them start a streak of eight straight postseason appearances upon his arrival. They never advanced past the conference finals, a surge that coincided with the Lakers dynasty of Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal.One of Divac's fellow starters on those Kings teams was Chris Webber, who wasn't included in the class. Now an analyst for CBS Sports, Webber quickly sent Divac a congratulatory message after the announcement in Minneapolis at the Final Four."For the last five or six days when I found out I was going to be there, I was only hoping that he was going to be next me," Divac said. "I'm sure it's going to happen down the road, but it would be awesome if he was right next to me."Moncrief and Sikma, who were elected by the North American committee, were teammates with the Milwaukee Bucks from 1986-89. The seven-time All-Star Sikma, who won an NBA title in his second season with the Seattle SuperSonics, set a record with the Bucks in 1988 as the only center in history to lead the league in free-throw percentage at 92.2. Sikma is now a consultant with the Toronto Raptors, who are in second place in the Eastern Conference behind the resurgent Bucks."My hope is we get in the conference finals and we're facing the Bucks, and then I'll kind of keep my thoughts to myself a little bit," Sikma said, smiling.Moncrief was a five-time All-Star and two-time NBA Defensive Player of the Year in the mid-1980s for the Bucks, who lost in the Eastern Conference finals three times during his career. Moncrief also reached the Final Four in his final season at Arkansas, 1978-79, under coach Eddie Sutton, for whom he gave credit for instilling in him the fundamentals that carried him to professional success."You'd take a four-hour practice: three hours on defense. Seriously," Moncrief said. "And they wonder why I couldn't shoot when I got to the NBA! I didn't shoot. I just played defense."Weatherspoon, who was elected by the women's committee, was a five-time WNBA All-Star for the New York Liberty who was the first in the league to reach 1,000 points and 1,000 assists. She led Louisiana Tech to an NCAA championship in 1988.Jones and Westphal were the other players elected by the North American committee. Jones was an eight-time NBA All-Defensive first team pick and four-time All-Star with the Philadelphia 76ers, winning a title with them in 1983. Westphal was a five-time All-Star who won a championship with the Boston Celtics in 1974.Fitch coached in the NBA for 255 seasons, leading the Celtics to a title in 1981 and still holding the franchise's best winning percentage at .738. The other election by the North American committee was the Tennessee A&I teams that won NAIA championships in 1957, 1958 and 1959. The program now known as Tennessee State was the first to win three straight titles in any college division.Attles was a direct election by the contributor committee. He played for the Philadelphia Warriors from 1960-71 and later was a coach, executive and ambassador for the organization. Cooper, who died in 1984, was directly elected by the early African American pioneers committee. He was an All-American at Duquesne in 1950 and the first African American player drafted by an NBA team. Braun, directly elected by the veterans committee, died in 2010. He was a five-time NBA All-Star who won a title with the Boston Celtics in 1962.
NEW YORK — The New York Knicks are turning to Patrick Ewing in hopes of lottery luck.Ewing, the prize when the Knicks won the first NBA draft lottery in 1985, will represent the team on stage when it attempts a turnaround by landing the No. 1 pick on May 14 in Chicago.The Knicks announced Saturday that the Georgetown coach would fill the role Dave DeBusschere had when the Knicks selected Ewing. He went on to a Hall of Fame career with the Knicks, who have been one of the NBA's least successful teams since he retired.They had the NBA's worst record this season at 17-65, matching the worst in franchise history, and have a 14% chance of winning the lottery.Knicks President Steve Mills says "we're proud to have one of the all-time Knicks greats sit on the dais on behalf of the team, the city and the fans."___
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Jerry Stackhouse had a couple interviews already lined up for possible NBA head coaching jobs. He says he decided to take a college job because of his relationship with Vanderbilt's new athletic director and the opportunity to turnaround the Commodores men's program.Stackhouse said during a news conference on Monday that he loves is teaching and coaching basketball, and he wants to bring back Memorial magic to the oldest arena in the Southeastern Conference.His lone head coaching experience is two years in the G League where he got to know a fellow North Carolina graduate in Malcolm Turner, who was the league's president. Turner took over as athletic director at Vanderbilt on Feb. 1.Stackhouse has been an assistant with the NBA's Memphis Grizzlies this season, and the 18-year NBA veteran also was an assistant in Toronto.Vanderbilt is coming off the worst season ever at 9-23, finishing the season on a 20-game skid.______
Tiger Woods' win at the Masters is still a hot topic. PodcastOne Sports Now hosts Jim Litke and Tim Dahlberg look back at the memorable moment that transcended the sports world. Litke and Dahlberg also discuss what Woods may do next for his career and the sport with AP Golf Writer Doug Ferguson, who was honored last week for receiving the PGA Lifetime Achievement Award in Journalism.Guest host Larry Lage catches up with Mike Tirico of NBC Sports after he filled in as an announcer at the Masters for Westwood One Radio. Jemele Hill, a staff writer for The Atlantic and host of "Jemele Hill is Unbothered," shares her thoughts on Woods' comeback and the essay Kyle Korver of the Utah Jazz recently wrote about white privilege for The Players' Tribune.ESPN analyst Chauncey Billups wraps up the weekly podcast, talking about his admiration for Woods. The 2004 NBA champion also breaks down the NBA playoffs, recalls being part of the infamous brawl involving the Detroit Pistons, Indiana Pacers and fans nearly 15 years ago and says he wants to be an NBA general manager.
Kentucky standout sophomore PJ Washington declared for the NBA draft on Tuesday and will hire an agent, the school announced."This place has been my home for two years and it's hard for me to put in words how much I've grown in my time at Kentucky. The staff challenged me from day one to become the best version of myself and to work hard to become one of the best players in college basketball. I feel like I've done that," Washington said in a statement posted on the Wildcats' website.The 6-foot-8 forward ends his career with 932 points, 476 rebounds, 120 assists and 74 blocks. He led the Wildcats in scoring (15.2) and rebounding (7.5) in the 2018-19 season. He also posted nine double-doubles and shot 52.2 percent from the floor, including 42.3 percent from the 3-point line.Washington earned first-team All-SEC and third-team All-America honors. He is projected to be a mid-first-round pick by ESPN.--Two-time SEC Player of the Year Grant Williams said he is entering the NBA draft but will remain open to returning to school for his senior season."My whole thing is I want to go into the process with an open mind and understand what I need to improve on and what I need to get better at, while also understanding I have to make the most informed decision possible," said Williams, who has until May 29 to make up his mind. "If it is the right time, then it is the right time."The 6-foot-7 Williams averaged 18.8 points and 7.5 rebounds this season while earning first-team All-America honors.-Michigan forward Ignas Brazdeikis, the 2018-19 Big Ten Freshman of the Year, and teammates Charles Matthews and Jordan Poole announced they will declare for the draft."As long as I can remember, I've wanted to be an NBA player -- not just an NBA player, but an NBA All-Star," said the 6-foot-7 Brazdeikis, a Canadian who averaged 14.8 points and 5.4 boards in 37 starts with the Wolverines.Matthews, a junior guard, averaged 12.2 points and 5.0 rebounds this season, while Poole, a sophomore guard, averaged 12.8 points.--St. John's junior guard Justin Simon declared for the draft and his decision was announced by RZA Sports, the entity that will represent him.Simon averaged 10.4 points and posted 50 steals while earning Big East Defensive Player of the Year honors.--Israel's Yovel Zoosman has submitted paperwork to the league office to become eligible for the draft, according to ESPN.Ranked No. 58 in the ESPN Top 100, the 20-year-old wing player was named MVP of the FIBA U20 European Championship last July after leading the Israeli national team to the championship in Germany.--Field Level Media
Sacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired Thursday after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said. "On behalf of the entire Kings organization, I want to thank Dave for his contributions to our team and I wish him all the best."Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs.The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final spot.Joerger, 45, has six years of NBA head coaching experience, the first three with Memphis (2013-16) and the next three in Sacramento. His overall coaching record is 245-247 and 98-148 with the Kings.His dismissal came on the same day that Divac and the Kings agreed to a four-year contract through the 2022-23 season, according to The Athletic.Divac, who became GM in early 2015, has built a nucleus of promising young players that includes Marvin Bagley III, Buddy Hield, De'Aaron Fox and Bogdan Bogdanovic.Divac, 51, played 16 seasons in the NBA for the Kings, Los Angeles Lakers and Charlotte Hornets. He will be enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in September.--Field Level Media
Kentucky freshman guard Tyler Herro on Friday announced his intention to declare for the NBA draft but left his options open for a return to the school.Herro said he will work with an agent, within new eligibility rules, in order to get feedback from teams on where he might land in the draft. If his draft stock is not as high as he had hoped, he said he will return to the Kentucky program."If the evaluations tell me I need to elevate my game further, I would be thrilled to return to Kentucky and help this team compete for a championship," Herro said on Twitter. "Whatever happens over the next couple of months, I want to thank (Kentucky fans) for (their) support this season and throughout this process."Herro averaged 14.0 points in the 2018-19 season, second on the Wildcats. He led the team with 60 made 3-pointers, while shooting 93.5 percent from the free throw line, a Kentucky single-season record. He led the Wildcats with 32.6 minutes per game.-- Duke freshman Cam Reddish became the team's second young star to declare for the draft, joining RJ Barrett. Reddish averaged 13.5 points, 3.7 rebounds and 1.9 assists in 36 games for Duke (32-6)."This season was epic, and I am so thankful to have had Duke as a part of the foundation that prepared me to play at the next level. Never forget - I am a Blue Devil for life. Proud to announce that I will be entering the 2019 NBA Draft," the 6-foot-8 forward posted on Instagram.Meanwhile, Blue Devils superstar Zion Williamson, the likely top overall pick, has yet to make an official decision.-- Big East Conference Player of the Year Markus Howard announced he is returning to Marquette for his senior season.Howard indicated there is more to accomplish in his announcement made on Twitter. "Unfinished Business," he wrote. "Looking forward to next season with this team."Howard averaged 25.0 points, 3.9 rebounds and 3.9 assists for Marquette last season. Among his many highlights was scoring a Big East record 53 points in an overtime victory over Creighton on Jan. 9.-- Kansas guard Devon Dotson said he has filed the paperwork to enter the draft but could return to the Jayhawks. He made his announcement on Twitter."After careful consideration with my family and coaches, I have decided to test the waters and enter into the 2019 NBA draft process. I feel it's a great opportunity to obtain feedback from NBA personnel to make fully informed decisions regarding my basketball future. Based on new rules, I will hire an agent and move forward while retaining my complete college eligibility."In his one season at Kansas, Dotson averaged 12.3 points, 3.7 rebounds and 3.5 assists per game.-- USC guard Kevin Porter Jr. hired an agent and said he will declare for the upcoming draft after he averaged 9.5 points and 4.0 rebounds per game for the Trojans.The 6-foot-6 Porter missed two months this season with a thigh injury. Porter, a product of Rainier Beach High School in South Seattle, Wash., will not turn 19 until May 4.
Arkansas has hired Nevada's Eric Musselman as its next men's basketball coach.The 54-year-old Musselman led a dramatic turnaround in Reno, leading the Wolf Pack to three NCAA Tournament in four years after a nine-year absence. Nevada reached the Sweet 16 in 2018, but lost in the first round to Florida this year.The son of a former coach, Musselman has had a well-traveled career. He coached the Sacramento Kings and Golden State Warriors in the NBA, had stints in the CBA and D-League, along with assistant jobs in the NBA and college.Razorbacks athletic director Hunter Yurachek announced Musselman's hiring Sunday on Twitter. Musselman replaces Mike Anderson, who was fired last month after eight seasons.___
PHOENIX — John MacLeod, the longtime NBA coach who led the Phoenix Suns to the 1976 NBA Finals, has died. He was 81.MacLeod's son, Matt, confirmed his father's death Sunday to The Associated Press. The elder MacLeod fought Alzheimer's disease for more than a decade.MacLeod is the winningest coach in Suns history, going 579-543 in the regular season from 1973-87. He also coached the Dallas Mavericks from 1987-89 and the New York Knicks in 1990-91, finishing his 18-year head coaching career with a 707-657 mark.MacLeod had his most success in Phoenix, capped by the 1975-76 "Sundarella Suns" run to the NBA Finals. The Suns lost to Boston in six games in the finals, with the Celtics' triple-overtime victory in Game 5 at Boston Garden regarded as one of the greatest games ever."His passion for the game was matched only by his endearing personality, humility and class, a man who was loved by everyone that had the pleasure of interacting with him," the Suns said in a statement. "Coach MacLeod was a winner in every sense and will be dearly missed by our entire Phoenix Suns family."His Phoenix teams made nine playoff appearances, also reaching the Western Conference finals in 1979 and 1984. He had a franchise- record 37 playoff victories, and was placed in the Phoenix Suns Ring of Honor in 2012.MacLeod also worked as an assistant with Phoenix, Denver and Golden State, ending his coaching career with the Warriors in 2006. He was a college head coach at Oklahoma from 1967-73 and Notre Dame from 1991-99, with son Matt a member of the Fighting Irish squad in his father's last two seasons. MacLeod starred at Providence High School in Clarksville, Indiana, and in college at Bellarmine.MacLeod also is survived by wife Carol and daughter Kathleen.
Duke freshman Cam Reddish became the team's second young star to declare for the 2019 NBA Draft on Thursday."This season was epic, and I am so thankful to have had Duke as a part of the foundation that prepared me to play at the next level. Never forget - I am a Blue Devil for life. Proud to announce that I will be entering the 2019 NBA Draft," the 6-foot-8 forward posted on Instagram.Teammate RJ Barrett declared his intentions on Wednesday and is projected as a top-three pick in the June 20 draft.Meanwhile, Blue Devils superstar Zion Williamson, the likely top overall pick, has yet to make an official decision.Reddish averaged 13.5 points, 3.7 rebounds and 1.9 assists in 36 games for Duke (32-6) this season. The Blue Devils were eliminated after reaching the Elite Eight of the NCAA Tournament.--Field Level Media
General manager Vlade Divac and the Sacramento Kings agreed to a four-year contract through the 2022-23 season, according to The Athletic.Financial terms were not announced.Divac, who became GM in early 2015, has built a nucleus of promising young players that includes Marvin Bagley III, Buddy Hield, De'Aaron Fox and Bogdan Bogdanovic.The Kings finished 39-43 this season and in ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. That was the Kings' best record since 2005-06 - the last time they qualified for the playoffs.The Kings started 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt, however, until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final spot.Divac, 51, played 16 seasons in the NBA for the Kings, Los Angeles Lakers and Charlotte Hornets. He will be enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in September.--Field Level Media
Kentucky freshman forward EJ Montgomery announced Friday he will enter the 2019 NBA Draft but will return to school if he doesn't receive a first-round draft grade. He has until May 29 to withdraw his entry."I have sat down with Coach Cal (John Calipari) and my family and decided to take full advantage of the rules that are in place and enter my name in the draft process," he said. "My goal is to be a first-rounder. If the information I receive supports that, my plan is to stay in the draft and pursue my dreams of playing in the NBA."He becomes the fourth Kentucky underclassman to declare for the June draft, joining sophomore forward PJ Washington and freshman guards Keldon Johnson and Tyler Herro.A 6-foot-10 forward from Florida, Washington appeared in 37 games (10 starts) for Kentucky in the 2018-19 season. He averaged 15.1 minutes per game, scoring 3.8 points and grabbing 4.1 rebounds.--Vermont junior forward Anthony Lamb, the America East player of the year, also announced he will enter the draft.The 6-foot-6 Lamb played in 32 games for the Catamounts, averaging 21.1 points, 7.8 rebounds and 2.3 assists in 31.6 minutes per game.--Field Level Media
Missouri forward Jontay Porter says he will enter the NBA draft.Porter missed the 2018-19 season after tearing the ACL and MCL in his right knee two weeks before the start of the season.In March, he re-tore his right ACL and subsequently had surgery. He later said via social media that he had tried to play basketball again before doctors gave him the OK."I'll be declaring for the 2019 NBA Draft," Porter posted on Twitter. "I'd like to sincerely thank everyone who has helped me get to this point in my journey, especially my family, coaches, and teammates. Excited for this next step!"Porter averaged 9.9 points and 6.8 rebounds as a 2017-18 freshman. He was named the co-Sixth Man of the Year in the Southeastern Conference after helping the Tigers reach their first NCAA Tournament in five years.--Missouri State forward Tulio Da Silva declared for the draft but decided not to hire an agent and will keep open the option of returning for his senior season.Da Silva averaged 14.3 points and 7.4 rebounds this season."Tulio plans to go through this process to better evaluate his future and make it possible for him to return for his senior season," Bears coach Dana Ford said in a statement.--Field Level Media
Luke Walton will become coach of the Sacramento Kings, securing another NBA head coaching job just a day after parting ways with the Los Angeles Lakers following three losing seasons.The 39-year-old Walton was dismissed by the Lakers on Friday after Los Angeles went 37-45. His move to the Kings was confirmed to The Associated Press on Saturday by a person who spoke on condition of anonymity because it hadn't been finalized. A formal announcement from the Kings is expected in the next couple of days.Sacramento general manager Vlade Divac fired Dave Joerger on Thursday after the coach helped develop the young Kings into playoff contenders before ultimately falling short in the franchise's 13th straight losing season.Also Thursday, the Kings extended Divac's contract through the 2022-23 season — and Walton's deal is expected to run those same four years.Sacramento features several talented young players acquired by Divac: guards De'Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield, forward Marvin Bagley III and center Willie Cauley-Stein. The Kings finished 39-43, nine games out of a playoff spot after being tied for the Western Conference's eighth seed heading into the final game before the All-Star break.Sacramento had its most wins since going 44-38 in 2005-06 during coach Rick Adelman's final season. That ended a run of eight straight playoff berths and Sacramento hasn't been back to the postseason since for the NBA's longest active drought.Walton, a former Lakers forward, went 98-148 after getting his first permanent head coaching job with the 16-time NBA champions. The former Golden State top assistant never led the Lakers to the playoffs, not even after the arrival of LeBron James last summer.He certainly has coached some of the game's biggest stars and egos.Many considered him the unofficial Coach of the Year for his guidance of the then-champion Warriors at the start of the 2015-16 season in place of an ailing Steve Kerr. Golden State began with a record 24-0 start and Walton was 39-4 overall before Kerr returned to the bench following complications from a pair of back surgeries.Walton's departure came three days after the Lakers finished with a loss Tuesday to the Trail Blazers and the abrupt resignation of team president Magic Johnson.___
Larry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed Thursday to part ways."We have great respect and appreciation for Larry and the job that he did as the head coach of the Cavaliers for nearly the entire 2018-19 campaign," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "He brought professionalism, class and steady leadership both this past season and prior four years."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role. Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers. All of us in Cleveland wish Larry nothing but the best going forward."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first, before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.Drew, 61, previously was head coach of the Atlanta Hawks (2010-13) and Milwaukee Bucks (2013-14), and joined the Cavaliers initially as an assistant coach in 2014, then as the associate head coach. While there, the Cavaliers won their first NBA title during the 2015-16 season. He has been an assistant coach in the NBA for 23 seasons.Drew went 8-1 as fill-in coach in the 2017-18 season while Lue was on a medical leave to deal with anxiety issues."I want to thank Dan Gilbert, Koby Altman, the entire organization, and especially our fans, for what has been a very special and rewarding time here in Cleveland. Koby and I had a good discussion following the season and have both decided that the best decision for each of us was that I would not return to coach the team," said Drew, who was an NBA point guard from 1980-91, playing for the Detroit Pistons, Kansas City/Sacramento Kings, Los Angeles Clippers and Lakers."I am very proud of what we accomplished over the last several years together and will always cherish our Championship. I also want to commend our players this season for the bond that they established, the way they approached their jobs and the hard work and growth they had every day. I am very proud of them and wish them the best as they continue to develop for the future."--Field Level Media
NEW YORK — Dwyane Wade was hurting, sitting on the training table trying to get enough treatment to get him on the floor one last time.A couple of hours later, he looked like a guy capable of playing well beyond the final night of his career.Wade had 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in his last NBA game, which the Brooklyn Nets won by beating the Miami Heat 113-94 on Wednesday night to finish 42-40 and clinch the No. 6 seed in the Eastern Conference.With close friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony leading the cheers from their courtside seats, Wade had his fifth career triple-double in three quarters. He fittingly secured it with a pass to Udonis Haslem, his teammate of 15 years who plays sparingly now and made his only start of the season."I was like, I don't know why, but everybody feels like now you've got to go out and score 60 in your last game because Kobe did it," said Wade, wearing a sparkling gold jacket and gold sneakers. "So hopefully I took the bar all the way back down and say let's go get a triple-double, that's easier."A night after scoring 30 points in his final game in Miami, Wade showed one more time that he's walking away with his skills intact.He played 36 minutes, dribbling out the shot clock the final time he had the ball before checking out with 10 seconds remaining. Then it was time for a lengthy postgame celebration on the court with teammates and friends."The man went out with a triple-double. Don't let that go unnoticed. He had a triple-double," All-Star D'Angelo Russell said. "He is a guy that paved the way for a lot of us. He's been with that franchise for that long period of time. He's Mr. Miami."Russell had 21 points on seven 3-pointers for the Nets, who will face the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers beginning this weekend in their first postseason appearance since 2015, one that seemed unlikely when they were 8-18 in December. But they went 34-22 from there for their first winning record since going 44-38 in 2013-14 — when they were knocked out by Wade's Heat in the second round."Special night," Nets coach Kenny Atkinson said. "Pretty amazing season so far."The game mattered only to the Nets, who quickly ended any fears of finishing seventh and having to face the Toronto Raptors in the first round.But that was secondary to a last chance to celebrate Wade, the three-time NBA champion who was ending his 16th and final NBA season.He was loudly cheered from the moment he emerged alone from the tunnel for pregame layups. Fans — egged on at one point by Paul and Anthony — chanted "We want Wade! We want Wade!" when he was on the bench, even though the 37-year-old guard had played a season-high 35 minutes Tuesday and coach Erik Spoelstra warned before the game that it probably wouldn't be that way again.But there was no keeping Wade down for long. It took him a little bit to get going, as Jarrett Allen added Wade to the list of stars whose shots he's blocked this season — a list that included James."I loved seeing CP and Melo over there getting the crowd going to get Dwyane back in there and Dwyane comes from the old-school NBA," Spoelstra said. "That was pre-load management, so we were not load managing him tonight and I was not talking to my sports scientist whether he could go, even though I walked in and saw him on that training table an hour before the game and he did not look fit to go, at all. But he's cut from a different cloth."
WASHINGTON — Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills and Washington Wizards forward Devin Robinson were arrested after a fight outside a nightclub, Washington police said Saturday.Karimah Bilal, program manager for the Metropolitan Police Department's office of communications, confirmed in an email to The Associated Press that the Mills named in the police report is the Eagles player.Both the 6-foot, 191-pound Mills and the 6-foot-8, 200-pound Robinson were charged with disorderly affray, which generally refers to fighting in a public place.The two men were "involved in a verbal altercation which escalated into a physical altercation on the sidewalk adjacent to the Opera Night Club" in the early hours of Saturday morning, according to the police report.Robinson was taken to a hospital for treatment, the report said.He also lost his job with the Wizards."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend him a qualifying offer for the 2019-20 season," the NBA team said in a statement.The Eagles said in their statement they are "aware of the situation" and "continuing to gather more information." They said they will not comment further now.Mills started eight games for the Eagles last season before going on injured reserve in December after hurting a foot.Philadelphia drafted him out of LSU in the seventh round in 2016. He was a member of the Eagles' Super Bowl championship team after the 2017 season, when he started 15 of 16 regular-season games.Robinson appeared in seven of the Wizards' 82 games last season and also played for their NBA G League affiliate, the Capital City Go-Go.______
ORLANDO, Fla. — The Toronto Raptors think Pascal Siakam should be selected the NBA's Most Improved Player.He was their MVP on Friday night.And the East's No. 2 seed has the home-court edge back again.Siakam had 30 points and 11 rebounds, hitting a floater with 1:33 left to help snuff out a big Orlando rally and the Raptors held off the Magic 98-93 to take a 2-1 lead in the Eastern Conference first-round series."He's unbelievable," Raptors guard Kyle Lowry said. "He's the most improved basketball player in the NBA this year and he's only going to get better."Siakam was 13 for 20 from the floor and the Raptors held Orlando to 36% shooting."It's just taking what a defense gives us and going with it," Siakam said.Kawhi Leonard — battling illness this week — had 16 points and 10 rebounds. Danny Green had 13 points and Lowry finished with 12 points and 10 assists, plus ran down a huge offensive rebound with about 15 seconds left to extend a critical possession and spoil Orlando's first home playoff game since 2012."It was really what I thought it was going to be tonight," Raptors coach Nick Nurse said. "I really thought this was going to be a tough atmosphere to play in."Terrence Ross led Orlando with 24 points, and Nikola Vucevic shook off a slow start to finish with 22 points and 14 rebounds.Game 4 is Sunday night in Orlando."Our turnovers hurt us again," Vucevic said, lamenting Orlando's 16 giveaways. "We had too many of those. Empty possessions for us and against a team like that you can't have that."The Raptors trailed 61-60 midway through the third after a brief Orlando spurt, then went on a 16-0 run over the next four minutes to take the lead for good. Siakam and Green were both 3 for 3 during the run, the Magic missed 10 consecutive shots over a span of 6 1/2 minutes and had to play uphill the rest of the way.That being said, they went down swinging.Lowry's 3-pointer with 7:48 left gave Toronto its biggest lead at 86-69. The Magic came flying back, and Ross' 3-pointer with 41 seconds left got Orlando to 96-93.
The Milwaukee Bucks had the best record in the NBA this season, so it would be no great surprise to see them playing for the title in June.Of course, for this franchise, advancing at all would be a significant step.The Bucks are an unusual top seed — one that hasn't made it past the first round of the playoffs since 2001. Advancing to round two may be the absolute minimum expectation this time, when Milwaukee starts its postseason journey Sunday night against eighth-seeded Detroit.It's an intriguing series mostly because it will be the first chance to observe how these Bucks handle playoff pressure as title contenders. This is a team that didn't even have home-court advantage in the first round a year ago. Now Milwaukee has it for the whole postseason."We know what's at stake. We know we have to get past the first round. We haven't been yet," Milwaukee's Khris Middleton said. "But at the same time, it's no pressure for us. Just keep doing what we do. Play the way we play, be who we are. We'll be fine."The Bucks improved by 16 victories from last season, winning 60 for the first time since 1980-81. With Giannis Antetokounmpo leading the way, this might be Milwaukee's most formidable outfit since Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Oscar Robertson were there during the first half of the 1970s — or at least since the Don Nelson-coached teams of the 1980s.The Bucks lost to Boston in seven games last year. They'll do their best to avoid any winner-take-all scenarios against the Pistons, who haven't won a playoff game since 2008. Detroit secured a playoff spot this year by winning at New York on the final night of the regular season. It was a step forward for the Pistons in their first season under coach Dwane Casey, but it's not clear how much more Detroit can expect from Blake Griffin, the man who did more than anyone to lift this team to the postseason.Griffin has been dealing with a troublesome knee, and he missed the all-important game against the Knicks. Even if Griffin is healthy, everyone understands who is expected to win this series."Nobody on this planet that's an NBA fan is going to expect us to win. That's great. That's good," Casey said. "I think a lot of our guys have been underdogs all their lives."Some more things to know before the start of this series:HISTORYThe Pistons swept the Bucks in the second round in 1989 en route to the NBA title. That was the last time Milwaukee won a playoff series until the Ray Allen-led Bucks went to the conference finals in 2001.Detroit also beat the Bucks in the first round in 1976, 2004 and 2006.FAMILIAR FACESThe Pistons acquired 7-foot-1 Thon Maker from Milwaukee in a trade earlier this season. He could be a key player, especially if Griffin is limited.
In the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.He secured his season high in points with a straightaway 3-pointer, his fifth of the game, early in the third quarter for 22 points. That was followed by a rare slam dunk that elicited howls from the crowd and a big smile across Nowitzki's face.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history then drained another jumper for 26 points and an 80-49 Dallas lead. He re-entered the game with three minutes left and hit two more buckets to go 11 of 31 from the floor. He finished with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 32 minutes.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points -- one off his career best -- with 26 coming in the fourth quarter, to get the Suns as close as 105-100 with 4:20 to play.Crawford, 39, became the oldest player ever to score 50-plus points in an NBA game. The old mark was held by Michael Jordan, who was 38 when he scored 51 for the Washington Wizards on Dec. 29, 2001, against the Charlotte Hornets.According to ESPN, Crawford also became the first player to score 50 points for four different franchises (Chicago Bulls, New York Knicks, Golden State Warriors and now Phoenix).The Suns closed out a miserable season, finishing 19-63.A longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery kept Nowitzki out until mid-December. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career, and averaged 6.6 points in less than 15 minutes a game before Tuesday.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted "M-V-P! M-V-P!" Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2006-07 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.The future of the Mavs (33-48), rookie Luka Doncic, also didn't disappoint, notching his eighth triple-double with 21 points, 11 assists and 16 rebounds. He moved into sole possession of third place for most triple-doubles by a rookie.--Field Level Media
Golden State guard Stephen Curry left the Warriors' Tuesday game against the New Orleans Pelicans with a sprained right foot, but the ailment isn't expected to affect his readiness for the NBA playoffs.Curry sustained the non-contact injury when he rolled his foot and ankle while dribbling near the 3-point arc. He immediately fell and lost control of the ball.The team already was short-handed without key contributors such as Kevin Durant (flu-like symptoms), Klay Thompson (right knee soreness), Andre Iguodala (toe) and Andrew Bogut (rest), yet Golden State beat New Orleans 112-103.Warriors coach Steve Kerr was relatively tight-lipped about the injury after the game -- even labeling it an ankle issue when the team had earlier reported it as a sprained foot -- but Golden State's in-game actions spoke louder than his words.After going to the locker room for an examination, Curry returned to the game briefly, an indication the Warriors don't believe the injury is serious.In fact, it was Curry who waved himself off after hitting a shot, clearly not willing to risk further damage with the playoff opener potentially as close as four days away. He finished with five points in nine minutes of action."We think he's going to be fine. He tweaked it," Kerr told reporters afterward.The coach then was asked if the Warriors' Wednesday duel with the Toronto Raptors for the second-best record in the NBA played any role in Curry re-entering the game."We would like to win every game," Kerr responded. "Whatever happens with the seedings, we prioritize our health."Golden State already had secured the top seed in the Western Conference playoffs.In 2017, Curry also turned his right ankle on the Pelicans' home court. He missed almost a month because of that injury.--Field Level Media
Magic Johnson announced his resignation as Los Angeles Lakers president of basketball operations Tuesday night at an impromptu news conference before the team's regular-season finale.Johnson, a Hall of Famer from his playing days with the Lakers, said he is resigning because he doesn't enjoy the job."I was happier when I wasn't the president (of the Lakers)," the 59-year-old said.His announcement came on the heels of an ESPN report that he and coach Luke Walton have not spoken for weeks.Johnson said team owner Jeanie Buss had not been told of his decision in advance. He expressed his affection for Buss, saying, "I knew I couldn't be face-to-face and tell her. I couldn't stand to tell her."He was annoyed by being sanctioned by the NBA for tampering when talking to or about players on other teams.Johnson added about the day-to-day NBA business, "What I didn't like is the backstabbing and the whispering. I don't like a lot of things that went on that didn't have to go on."I hope that after (the season ends), the Lakers can head in the right direction, which we are. Injuries really hurt us, but I enjoyed working with Jeanie."Walton's future is in jeopardy after he failed to lead the Lakers to the postseason in the first season with LeBron James on the team. The Lakers entered the Tuesday night game against the Portland Trail Blazers with a 37-44 record.Walton, 39, is set to wrap up his third consecutive sub-.500 season with Los Angeles. He entered Tuesday with a career record of 98-147 for a .400 winning percentage.Buss has been a strong proponent of Walton but previously said she planned to let Johnson and general manager Rob Pelinka decide his future, according to ESPN. She said during a radio interview last week, "I will always defer to Magic."--Field Level Media
The Phoenix Suns officially named James Jones as general manager Thursday, giving him control over all basketball operations for the team.The Suns also added Jeff Bower as senior vice president of basketball operations and retained Trevor Bukstein as assistant general manager. Both will report to Jones, the team said in a statement.Jones, 38, who played 14 seasons in the league and won three NBA championships, had served as Phoenix's VP of basketball operations the last two seasons. He shared GM duties this past season with Bukstein."James has demonstrated a remarkable ability to manage the day-to-day efforts of our front office while developing strong relationships with our players, coaches and those across our organization and league," said Suns managing partner Robert Sarver in a statement."Furthermore, he is instilling the same championship culture and standard that he experienced on multiple occasions as a player. I have the utmost confidence in James as the leader of our basketball operations moving forward, and we are aligned in the ultimate goal of one day bringing an NBA championship to Phoenix."The Suns had been without a full-time general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.Phoenix finished the season with a 19-63 record.Bower, 57, was general manager of the Detroit Pistons from 2014-18. He previously served two terms as GM of the Charlotte/New Orleans Hornets from 2001-03 and 2005-10."I'm thrilled to add an individual with Jeff's experience and basketball acumen to our front office," Jones said. "Jeff brings a wealth of knowledge in every facet of basketball operations, is of high character and well respected in league circles, and has a proven track record of influencing organizational success. His expertise in creating and executing a plan will be invaluable as we build our team moving forward."Bukstein has been an assistant GM with the Suns since 2013.--Field Level Media
Chris Mullin stepped down as St. John's head coach on Tuesday, with speculation falling on Arizona State coach Bobby Hurley as his replacement."This has been an extremely emotional decision, but after a recent personal loss, I took time to reflect upon my true values and believe this is the right time to make a change," Mullin said in a statement issued by the school. "I am extremely grateful to the administration, which has supported me and our basketball program on every level."I've been amazed by our coaches, trainers, managers and staff who work relentless hours, which enables this team to grow and thrive. I've been honored to coach the young men who are the heart and soul of this program. It's a job I will always cherish."Mullin's older brother, Rod, died from cancer in early March.Athletic director Mike Cragg issued a statement thanking Mullin."St. John's basketball progressed well during his tenure, culminating with a trip to the NCAA Tournament this past season. Coach Mullin has a deep passion for this program and he has been committed to helping our student-athletes achieve their goals on and off the court, so I know this was not an easy decision. We wish him and his family nothing but the best as he begins this new chapter of his life."Mullin went 59-73 at his alma mater, taking the Red Storm to one NCAA Tournament -- this season's First Four, where they lost to Hurley's Sun Devils. Hurley is "expected to be at the top of St. John's list" of replacements, according to a Sunday report from Jon Rothstein of CBS Sports.Hurley is a New Jersey native and has a background with Cragg, who spent more than 30 years in various administrative roles at Duke, his time intersecting with Hurley's playing days with the Blue Devils from 1989-93.Rick Pitino told the New York Post on Tuesday that he would be interested in the job, but he wants an apology and to be cleared publicly by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York. Louisville fired Pitino in September 2017, in part because the government alleged Pitino was part of a play-for-pay scandal involving five-star recruit Brian Bowen.Pitino has maintained his innocence. Now coaching in Greece, he denied to the Post that he reached out to St. John's on Monday."I think the AD is a Duke man and Bobby Hurley was a great Duke player, and I think he would be an excellent choice," Pitino said.Hurley is 73-58 in four seasons at Arizona State and 115-78 in six years as a college head coach, including two years at Buffalo.Mullin, a Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame member, holds the St. John's record of 2,440 points, set from 1981 to 1985. He went on to a 16-year NBA career in which he was a five-time All-Star.St. John's went 21-13 this season but last week lost its top recruiter, Matt Abdelmassih, who joined new Nebraska coach Fred Hoiberg. The Red Storm's best player, junior guard Shamorie Ponds (19.7 points, 5.1 assists, 4.1 rebounds, 2.6 steals), has announced that he will enter the NBA draft.The departures continued after Tuesday's announcement. Junior guard Justin Simon (10.4 points per game) hired an agent and announced he was entering the NBA draft, while backup guard Bryan Trimble Jr. has entered his name into the NCAA transfer portal, a source told ESPN.
LOS ANGELES — Luke Walton is out as coach of the Los Angeles Lakers after three losing seasons.Lakers general manager Rob Pelinka announced Walton's departure Friday, three days after the abrupt resignation of president of basketball operations Magic Johnson. Pelinka called Walton leaving a mutual decision.The former Lakers forward went 98-148 after getting his first permanent head coaching job with the 16-time NBA champions. The former Golden State assistant never led the Lakers to the playoffs, not even after the arrival of LeBron James last summer.Walton leaves three days after the Lakers' final game of their 37-45 season was upstaged by the shocking pregame resignation of Johnson, who inherited Walton when he took over the Lakers' front office in February 2017. Johnson attributed his decision in part to his desire and reluctance to fire Walton, who is close to Lakers owner Jeanie Buss.A potential power struggle instead ended with both men out of their jobs after this wild week. Pelinka, who was hired along with Johnson, announced the move in a possible sign of the increased organizational power of Kobe Bryant's former agent."I want to thank Jeanie Buss and the Buss family for giving me the opportunity to coach the Lakers," Walton said in a statement issued by the Lakers. "This franchise and the city will always be special to me and my family."Walton joined the Lakers with fanfare in 2016 after his successful tenure alongside coach Steve Kerr with the powerhouse Warriors. Walton stepped in as Golden State's interim coach when Kerr was sidelined by health issues to start the 2015-16 season, and he led the Warriors to a 24-0 start and a 39-4 record before Kerr returned to the bench."They're losing one of the best human beings in the NBA. They're losing a guy who knows the game as well as anybody I've ever met," Kerr said Friday in Oakland. "They're losing somebody who players believe in, players want to play for. But again, he was dependent on circumstances, just like all of us are. I feel for Luke."The Lakers improved their record in each of Walton's three seasons, but never finished higher than third place in the Pacific Division. The current Lakers were the franchise's most successful team since their playoff drought began in 2013, but it wasn't enough to save Walton's job."I think Luke did a hell of a job with what he had, the cards he was dealt," point guard Rajon Rondo said. "The guys fought every night."Los Angeles was in fourth place in the Western Conference at 20-14 after beating Golden State last Christmas, but James and Rondo were injured during the game. The Lakers' season fell apart during the longest injury absence of James' career, and they ended the season with nearly every important player in their young core sidelined by injuries.Walton was tasked with one of the most difficult jobs in the NBA this season. Johnson and Pelinka gave him an oddly constructed roster of idiosyncratic NBA veterans on one-year deals playing alongside James and several talented youngsters including Brandon Ingram, Lonzo Ball, Kyle Kuzma and Josh Hart.Walton's Lakers also were rattled by Johnson's midseason pursuit of disgruntled New Orleans forward Anthony Davis in a trade that would have resulted in a complete roster upheaval. Several Lakers acknowledged the shadowy pursuit's impact on their play."It affected us a lot," guard Kentavious Caldwell-Pope said. "Once the trade talk was there, the locker room changed. Everybody was pretty much worried about that, especially guys that haven't been through it. They were worried where they were going to end up."James and the Lakers' players have been uniformly supportive of Walton, who managed to keep his team playing hard and harmoniously under the Los Angeles microscope despite multiple major injuries and distractions. Walton just couldn't coax enough wins out of the Lakers, who ruined their second-half playoff hopes with confounding losses to bottom-dwellers New York and Phoenix.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. FIRE OUT BUT MUCH WORK AHEAD FOR DAMAGED NOTRE DAMEExperts are assessing the blackened shell of Paris' iconic cathedral to establish next steps to save what remains after a devastating fire destroyed much of the almost 900-year-old building.2. REDACTED SPECIAL COUNSEL REPORT COMING THIS WEEKTrump is stepping up his attacks in an effort to undermine potential disclosures on Russia, his 2016 campaign and the aftermath.3. WHAT IS AMERICA'S NEW BUZZWORD"Redacted." The U.S. government has a long history of withholding everything from the most sensitive information to the most harmless trivia.4. 'I'M GRATEFUL I HAVE THE CHANCE TO BE A MOM'Twenty years after teenage gunmen attacked Columbine High School in suburban Denver, alumni like Kacey Ruegsegger Johnson have become parents.5. LIBYA ON VERGE OF ALL-OUT WARA former general is marching on the capital, Tripoli, where heavily armed militias have joined forces to prevent a return to one-man rule.6. INDONESIANS TO HEAD TO POLLSAbout 193 million residents are eligible to decide who leads the Southeast Asian nation, which is an outpost of democracy and is forecast to be among the world's biggest economies by 2030.7. VENEZUELA FACING 'NEW NORMAL'It is in this South American country that two men say they are president and the worst nationwide blackouts play havoc with the lives of millions.
As expected, Duke freshman star R.J. Barrett officially declared for the 2019 NBA Draft on Wednesday."I want to thank God, my family, my coaches and everyone that has helped me reach this decision," the 6-foot-7 forward posted on Twitter.Barrett is projected as a top-three pick in the June 20 draft, along with Blue Devils teammate and fellow first-team All-American Zion Williamson.Barrett averaged 22.6 points, 7.6 rebounds and 4.3 assists and started all 38 games for Duke (32-6), which reached the Elite Eight of the NCAA Tournament.--Kentucky freshman Keldon Johnson is entering the draft and hiring an agent, but he is leaving the door open to decide to return to school by the May 29 deadline."My hope is to be a lottery pick," he said in a statement. "If I am, I plan on pursuing my dreams and staying in the draft, but I want to go through the process first and get the correct information."Johnson, a 6-6 guard, was third on the Wildcats in scoring (13.5 points per game) and rebounding (5.9 per game), earning SEC Freshman of the Year of the honors.--Arizona State guard Luguentz Dort, the Pac-12 Freshman of the Year, told ESPN he is "all-in" for the NBA draft.Dort, a burly 6-4 guard, averaged 16.1 points, 4.3 rebounds and 2.3 assists for the Sun Devils. He earned second-team All-Pac-12 honors and was on the league's all-defensive team.He is ranked No. 27 among ESPN's list of top draft prospects.--Ohio State sophomore forward Kaleb Wesson will go through the draft process, coach Chris Holtmann said."That process began about a week ago and we'll see where it leads," Holtmann said on Cleveland.com. "We've begun to gather some information from advisory committee for guys going through this process and that's been helpful."Wesson averaged team highs with 14.6 points and 6.9 rebounds on the 2018-19 season.--Field Level Media
The Golden State Warriors are set to begin their quest for a third straight title, and this time it's up to someone else to try to stop them.With LeBron James gone to the West and this year gone entirely from the postseason, the Eastern Conference headquarters for the NBA Finals won't be in his home for the first time since 2010.He played for the title for eight straight years, which may have been great for the TV ratings but lately wasn't much good for the competition. The Warriors swept Cleveland last year after winning 4-1 in 2017.Teams are lining up to seize his old spot atop the East, all capable of providing the intrigue that was absent the last couple years.There's Milwaukee, with Giannis Antetokounmpo in position to exit June fully atop the NBA with a title and an MVP award.Or Toronto, humiliated by the Cavaliers in the last two years but armed now with a former NBA Finals MVP in Kawhi Leonard.It could be Philadelphia, with Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons anchoring perhaps the most talented starting five outside of the Bay Area.And don't forget Boston, the presumptive East favorite in the preseason that can still live up to expectations.The best player is gone, but maybe things will be better."I think the parity and the competition in the East, and not knowing and everyone having a sincere chance maybe in the East that did not, when not you look between Toronto, Boston, Philadelphia," TNT analyst Chris Webber said. "All of those story lines, new young stars that's coming in."The long road to get to the finals begins Saturday with four games, including the top-seeded Warriors against the Los Angeles Clippers in the West. No. 2 Denver faces No. 7 San Antonio in the other West opener, while No. 3 Philadelphia meets No. 6 Brooklyn, and No. 2 Toronto takes on No. 7 Orlando in the East.On Sunday, the overall No. 1 seed Bucks face No. 8 Detroit, and No. 4 Boston hosts No. 5 Indiana in the East. In the West, No. 3 Portland and No. 6 Oklahoma City meet in a matchup of Northwest Division rivals, and No. 4 Houston and No. 5 Utah square off in the opener of a series between two of the strongest teams in the second half of the season.It's the start of postseason that looks different far beyond just the absence of James for the first time since 2005.It includes Denver, in the playoffs for the first time since 2013. Brooklyn is a playoff team for the first time since 2015 and Orlando is back for the first time since 2012.The Warriors, of course, haven't just been going to the postseason every year, but getting all the way to the finals once they do. They've done that four straight years, winning three of them, and with a strong finish after some occasional lapses surged to the best record in the West.
As expected, Duke freshman star R.J. Barrett officially declared for the 2019 NBA Draft on Wednesday."I want to thank God, my family, my coaches and everyone that has helped me reach this decision," the 6-foot-7 forward posted on Twitter.Barrett is projected as a top-three pick in the June 20 draft, along with Blue Devils teammate and fellow first-team All-American Zion Williamson.Barrett averaged 22.6 points, 7.6 rebounds and 4.3 assists and started all 38 games for Duke (32-6), which reached the Elite Eight of the NCAA Tournament.--Field Level Media
MEMPHIS, Tenn. — Salah Mejri scored a career-high 19 points, including the tying basket in regulation and the first seven points of overtime as the Dallas Mavericks defeated the Memphis Grizzlies 129-127 on Sunday night.Mejri, who had nine rebounds and four blocks, was 7 of 12 from the floor and made a pair of 3-pointers. Trey Burke led the Mavericks with 24 points, 14 in the fourth quarter and overtime. Justin Jackson and Dorian Finney-Smith added 16 points apiece, and Finney-Smith grabbed 12 rebounds.Delon Wright had his second consecutive triple-double with 20 points, 13 rebounds and 12 assists for the Grizzlies. Justin Holiday paced Memphis with a career-high 30 points.Memphis led 112-110 after Ivan Rabb hit one of two free throws with 54.5 seconds left in regulation. After four misses inside by the Mavericks, they pulled even when Mejri scored on a putback with 1.5 seconds remaining.That sent the game to overtime after Memphis couldn't get a shot off before the horn sounded ending regulation.In the extra period, Mejri scored on a pair of dunks and then a 3-pointer to give Dallas an early lead. Memphis tied it but could never go ahead, and the Mavericks made three of four free throws in the final 15 seconds.Wright's 3-point attempt as the horn sounded was short.TIP-INSMavericks: Dirk Nowitzki, who only played in the first half, has appeared in 76 games against the Grizzlies — the most regular-season games against the franchise by any NBA player. He is also second in scoring against the Grizzlies behind Kobe Bryant. . Nowitzki grabbed his 10,000th defensive rebound in the first quarter, becoming the fifth NBA player to reach that milestone. . Dallas rookie Luka Doncic missed his fourth game in the last five with a variety of injuries, most notably a bruised right thigh.Grizzlies: A 3-pointer in the second quarter set a franchise record for 3s in a season with 768. The previous mark of 767 was set in 2016-17. ... Bruno Caboclo had a career-high 17 rebounds. His previous best was 13 on March 27 against Golden State. . Point guard Mike Conley missed his fourth straight game with left ankle soreness.UP NEXTMavericks: Host the Phoenix Suns on Tuesday in their final home game of the season.Grizzlies: Play at Detroit on Tuesday in their last road game.___
NEW YORK — The WNBA's logo is getting a new look and the league is resetting its brand for the upcoming season.The league unveiled its plans Monday as it looks to embrace the optimism of the women across the WNBA in building the next generation of fans."We are excited about all of it," WNBA chief operating officer Christy Hedgpeth said by phone last week. "It starts with our purpose, which is to expand our audience and grow at a faster rate."We believe we'll do that by becoming more and more culturally relevant over time. It led us to a new target consumer, new design target that's much, much younger — the 16-to-34 millennials, who are very diverse, very socially conscious, engaged in issues of today."The WNBA's 23rd season begins May 24, with the Seattle Storm the defending champion.The league partnered with Sylvain Labs, an innovation and brand design consultancy last year, to learn more about its existing fans and potential new fans. They developed a long-term growth strategy and identify new marketing opportunities."We've engaged very, very closely throughout this process," Hedgpeth said. "Six months working with Sylvain Labs to develop what the new brand will stand for."The two groups, along with player input, came up with the league's new logo."They took the silhouette out of the box which is a massive breakthrough as she was perceived totally different," Hedgpeth said. "She was free, there was more movement there, taking up more space. She's more athletic, longer physique. This is basketball on our terms. That was a phrase that really resonated with the players. That's really symbolic in that regard."The new logo is different from others affiliated with the NBA."The NBA logo, there's a rectangle around him, he's in a box. Same with the G-League logo and the previous W-logo. She had a box around her," Hedgpeth said. "The box is going away. It's powerful, it's freeing and it's expansive."It's the first time the league will have a new logo since 2013. While the new logo won't be on the uniforms or balls until next year because of the lack of production time needed to do it, it will be everywhere else around the league.Hedgpeth insisted that the logo wasn't modeled after one player and that the hair was a huge part of the conversation. The logo has a bun which represents the way many players wear their hair.The league also has a new marquee partner in AT&T."They are a perfect fit," Hedgpeth said. "They have such a great fit to diversity and inclusion and accurately portraying women in advertising."
Dirk Nowitzki was mum all season on his future plans but after a rousing performance in the Dallas Mavericks' home finale Tuesday, the star finally announced the decision everyone expected."Wow. I'm a little overwhelmed, as you would think," Nowitzki told the sellout crowd after the Mavericks' 120-109 victory over the Phoenix Suns. "As you guys might expect, this is my last home game."Nowitzki made his much-anticipated retirement announcement after delivering a season-high 30-point performance, with five 3-pointers, against the Suns. The 7-footer scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history (31,540 points) finished the game with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 33 minutes.The 40-year-old Nowitzki, whose playing career will officially end Wednesday night when the Mavs play the San Antonio Spurs, was honored by the appearance of five of his childhood heroes -- Charles Barkley, Larry Bird, Scottie Pippen, Shawn Kemp and fellow German Detlef Schrempf -- for a postgame ceremony that included heartfelt speeches by Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle and owner Mark Cuban."Amazing that my heroes came out here for this game," Nowitzki said. "Thank you guys so much. Love you guys. Grew up watching you and idolizing you guys so this means more than you will ever know."Mark, can't wait to see what you've got for my jersey retirement. I mean, this is a high bar that you set. But as you guys might expect, this is my last home game."Nowitzki's final season didn't actually begin until mid-December thanks to a longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career and averaged 6.6 points in fewer than 15 minutes a game.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted M-V-P! M-V-P! Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2007 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.--Field Level Media
NEW ORLEANS — The Pelicans have reached an agreement in principle to make former Cleveland Cavaliers general manager David Griffin New Orleans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, three people familiar with the situation said Friday.The people spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because contract negotiations are ongoing and no announcement has been made.Griffin will take over for former Pelicans general manger Dell Demps, who was fired in the middle of his ninth season with the club — a few weeks after All-Star Anthony Davis' trade request in late January.Griffin's agreement to join New Orleans, which was first reported by ESPN, puts him at the center of the club's effort to find the best deal for Davis. Griffin also could decide the fate of Pelicans coach Alvin Gentry, who has two years left on his contract.The 45-year-old Griffin was the Cavaliers' GM from 2014 to 2017, during which LeBron James returned from Miami to Cleveland and the Cavs won an NBA title. The highlights of his tenure included a trade that brought star power forward Kevin Love to the Cavs. But Griffin's contract was not renewed after the 2016-17 season and James joined the Los Angele Lakers in free agency a year later. Griffin also worked in the Phoenix Suns' front office from 1993 until 2009, a stint that overlapped with Gentry's time as both a Suns assistant and head coach.Griffin was among six people interviewed by the Pelicans to replace Demps, including interim general manager Danny Ferry, Golden State assistant GM Larry Harris, Brooklyn Nets assistant GM Trajan Langon, Houston Rockets assistant GM Gersson Rosas and interim Washington president of basketball operations Tommy Sheppard.Now Griffin will attempt to transform a franchise that went 33-49 this season and has slightly better than a 25 percent chance of landing a top four pick in the NBA draft lottery on May 14.Trading Davis also could fetch a high draft choice, if Griffin chooses to go that route.Gentry has a regular-season record of 145-183 with one playoff appearance last season and one playoff series victory — a sweep of Portland before losing in five games to eventual champion Golden State.Although the Pelicans struggled this season, Gentry was commended by his players for his professionalism amid difficult circumstances."He's kind of been the guy who has let us grow," said Pelicans guard Jrue Holiday, who is coming off the best season of his 10-year NBA career. "I know he has for sure let me grow. He's given me responsibility ... and when he saw me succeed in it, he asked for more."Sometimes there's coaches that you kind of feel like they're holding you back as a player and kind of restrict you, but I feel like he kind of just lets you go and figure it out yourself," Holiday said earlier this week. "He's always been like a partner instead of like a dictator, and I feel like for professionals like ourselves and the guys in the locker room, we really respect that."Davis, who averaged 25.9 points, 12 rebounds and 2.4 blocks in 56 games, made his trade demand with 32 games left in the season and wound up missing 17 of those games, sometimes for rest and at other times was listed as out with back spasms, including for the final seven games.When he did play, it was rarely for much more than 20 minutes a game.The Pelicans will have a number of other pressing roster matters as well.
LOS ANGELES — Magic Johnson abruptly quit as the Los Angeles Lakers' president of basketball operations Tuesday night, citing a desire to get back to the simpler life he enjoyed before taking over the franchise just over two years ago.Johnson didn't tell owner Jeanie Buss or general manager Rob Pelinka before he stepped in front of reporters about 90 minutes before the final game of the Lakers' sixth consecutive losing season.Johnson didn't directly tie his decision to the future of coach Luke Walton, who was widely expected to be fired by Johnson soon. But Johnson repeatedly mentioned Buss' affinity for Walton and Johnson's desire not to cause upheaval between them.Johnson also says he's tired of being fined by the NBA for tampering.___
Las Vegas oddsmakers made the Virginia Cavaliers favorites to repeat as national champions in 2020.Caesars Palace was the first out with odds for next year and posted the Cavaliers as 5-1 favorites to cut down the nets next year in Atlanta. Duke and Kentucky are second at 8-1 with Gonzaga listed as a 10-1 favorite."Virginia's only loss to graduation is reserve big man Jack Salt, so they will be stacked again next year if no one leaves for the NBA," Caesars' Matt Lindeman told ESPN.National runner-up Texas Tech opened at 30-1 to win it all next year.The Westgate Las Vegas SuperBook made the Cavs co-favorites with Kentucky at 7-1. Duke and Michigan State opened at 8-1.--Field Level Media
INDIANAPOLIS — The Indiana Pacers will stay in Indianapolis for 25 more years in a deal approved Friday that includes $295 million in public subsidies for a renovation and expansion of Bankers Life Fieldhouse, the NBA team's downtown arena.The Marion County Capital Improvement Board's vote in favor of the agreement comes as state legislators are negotiating a plan diverting state and local income and sales tax revenue generated by several downtown hotels toward the arena project.The deal calls for the Pacers to provide $65 million toward the renovations, which will feature construction of a year-round outdoor plaza in place of an existing parking garage next to the arena and interior updates. It commits the board to spending up to $120 million on technology upgrades at the fieldhouse, which opened in 1999.Herbert Simon, the team's 84-year-old owner, has said he wants to keep the Pacers in Indiana and has designated his son, Steve Simon, to eventually take over the franchise that has been in the family since 1983."The Simon family has always desired for the Pacers to stay in Indiana for the long term," Herbert Simon said in a statement. "The new agreement ensures that the Pacers will be here and that the fieldhouse will continue to be the best facility for generations of fans and guests."Plans are for the outdoor plaza to host concerts and other public events, along with a public ice skating rink in the winter and a public basketball court in the summer."It becomes a year-round entertainment opportunity," said Rick Fuson, the team's president and chief operating officer.Construction is expected to begin next year after the Pacers season ends, but work will be suspended ahead of the team hosting the NBA All-Star Game in February 2021. The final phase of the project, which will include the outdoor plaza, is expected to be completed in 2022. The WNBA's Indiana Fever will have to play home games elsewhere for the 2020, 2021 and 2022 seasons.A long-term agreement with the Pacers has been a condition of the state Legislature's bill making the subsidies available for the arena project. No new taxes will be imposed, but the tax revenue related to the hotels will be diverted from the state, city and local schools.Under the new deal, the Capital Improvement Board will continue paying toward the arena's operating costs, growing from the current $12.5 million a year to about $16 million in the later years before the agreement expires in 2044. That would amount to about $362 million over the deal's lifespan.The Legislature is also poised to extend the city's admissions, auto-rental and hotel taxes through 2040 that generate about $77 million a year for the board, which also oversees Lucas Oil Stadium, the Indiana Convention Center and the Victory Field minor league baseball stadium.Board President Melina Kennedy said the deal with the Pacers will enhance an arena used for events throughout the year."It's really important that we have a world-class facility that continues to attract fans," Kennedy said.___
MIAMI — Come Thursday, Dwyane Wade will have no games left.That is the reality, like it or not. After 16 seasons as an NBA player, after three championships, an almost-annual spot in the All-Star Game, a scoring title, three franchises, four children, an Olympic gold medal and 161 teammates, the end is here.On Tuesday, Wade was playing his final regular-season home game when the Miami Heat hosted the Philadelphia 76ers — with Wade in the starting lineup for the first time all season. On Wednesday, it'll be a game at Brooklyn to end the season. The Heat started Tuesday with a slim playoff chance, which ended when Detroit beat Memphis."I gave this game everything I had," Wade said. "And I have appreciated every bit of it."So Tuesday was the farewell in Miami for Wade. It was the 576th and final time he played at AmericanAirlines Arena, all but one of those coming in a Heat uniform."It's been incredible. It's been amazing," Wade said. "A lot of people in that arena have watched me grow, have watched me be imperfect, have watched me make a lot of mistakes in life, as well as watched me blossom and watched me do amazing things, great things. I'm thankful for it."The game didn't tip off until 7:50 p.m. Tributes started in the morning. A Budweiser video showed Wade getting gifts from people — his mother, Jolinda Wade, and others including Andrea Ghersi, the sister of slain teen Joaquin "Guac" Oliver — in a nod to the way he's exchanged jerseys with fellow players all season. Gatorade aired a video starring John Legend , who sang a tribute to Wade's No. 3. Heat President Pat Riley wrote a letter to Wade published in the game program, saying Wade will be loved "forever and for always."Ghersi gave Wade her brother's jersey in the video, which was taped last week. The jersey — No. 3, of course — came with words scrawled in marker: "Please don't forget my brother."There was a pregame series of events inside the arena. Wade addressed the crowd, thanking every teammate — even ones no longer on this season's roster — by name. Wade's children were there. Students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High, where the Feb. 14, 2018, massacre left 17 dead, performed the national anthem. It was fitting that the kids from MSD were there; the tragedy touched Wade deeply and Oliver, one of the victims, was buried in a Wade jersey.The end of the anthem was drowned out by cheers. Wade's face appeared on the video screens. The fans roared."Noooooooo," Wade said. "Y'all are not about to make me cry before this game."His wife Gabrielle Union-Wade, Heat coach Erik Spoelstra, former Heat greats Shaquille O'Neal and LeBron James, Heat teammate Udonis Haslem and Riley narrated a 5-minute pregame video. Hardly anyone was sitting. Even the 76ers stayed on the floor and watched, looking up the whole time. Zaire Wade, his oldest son, introduced his dad in the same way that his father taped his famous "From Robbins, Illinois" commercial nearly 15 years ago."This city will always be proud to rep your name across our backs," Riley said.Former President Barack Obama — like Wade, a proud Chicagoan — sent a taped message as well, playing during the first timeout.
A look at where things stand in the NBA playoff picture, with four days remaining in the regular season:EASTERN CONFERENCEMiami controls its destiny, which sounds good.Miami could also be eliminated on Sunday as well.And Dwyane Wade's "One Last Dance" might end without a playoff berth.The Heat have not dropped four straight games at any point this season. It would be in their best interest for that statement to remain accurate on Sunday, when Miami — losers of three straight — gets the rare noon tip-off at Toronto. If the Heat win, they remain alive regardless of other outcomes. If they lose, it might be over.In fact, the remaining three spots in the Eastern Conference field could be claimed on Sunday. If Miami loses, and Brooklyn wins, and Detroit wins, the field will be set. If Miami wins, then the race is guaranteed to extend to at least Tuesday. And if the Heat go 3-0 in the next four days — after the game at Toronto, they host Philadelphia on Tuesday and visit Brooklyn on Wednesday — they're in the playoffs."You want to win in the playoffs, you have to learn how to win pressure games and games with expectation and consequences during the regular season," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "This can't feel any more like the playoffs right now. Our backs are fully against the wall. I just think this is an awesome experience for our team. You have to find a way to embrace this and rise to the challenge."Philadelphia cut its magic number for clinching the No. 3 spot to one by defeating Chicago on Saturday. In the only other game on the NBA schedule — intentionally made light by the schedule-makers because of the NCAA Final Four going on — Brooklyn went up one spot to sixth, passing Orlando, by holding off Milwaukee on Saturday. The Bucks rested Giannis Antetokounmpo in that one because of a calf issue.But all was not lost for the Magic.Orlando can clinch its first playoff berth since 2012 on Sunday; the Magic would get in if they win at Boston, or if Miami and Charlotte both lose. If the Magic don't beat the Celtics, then Boston would secure a top-four spot and home-court for the first round.WESTERN CONFERENCEOracle Arena will play host to more games. Probably a lot more games, to be honest, unless the Golden State Warriors get stunned in the early rounds of these playoffs.But on Sunday night, the Warriors will play a regular-season game there for the 1,936th, and last, time.And they could close that chapter at their Oakland home in style: A win over the Los Angeles Clippers in the home regular-season finale on Sunday would secure the No. 1 seed in the Western Conference race for the two-time defending NBA champions, who are moving to the brand-new Chase Center in San Francisco starting next season.
DALLAS — Dallas Mavericks star Dirk Nowitzki announced his retirement from the NBA after a record 21 seasons with the same franchise, giving the fans the secret he had kept all season after scoring 30 points in his final home game, a 120-109 win over the Phoenix Suns on Tuesday night.The 40-year-old showed his emotion during the game, fighting back tears just before action resumed at the start of the second quarter following a tribute video that detailed his holiday visit to a children's hospital.Nowitzki's final basket in Dallas was his signature one-legged fadeaway from slightly above the free throw line for a 120-108 lead with 1:22 remaining after the Mavericks had let a 30-point halftime cushion get cut to four in the fourth quarter.After speeches from Larry Bird and others he idolized growing up in Germany, Nowitzki told the crowd, "As you guys might expect, this is my last home game."The sellout crowd that followed owner Mark Cuban's orders by showing up early chanted "M-V-P" and "One more year" throughout the game. But after he made the announcement, the chant turned to "Thank you, Dirk" as Cuban started to speak.The 14-time All-Star has one game remaining, Dallas' season finale at San Antonio on Wednesday night."This is obviously super, super emotional," Nowitzki said. "Just too many people to really thank. I put you guys on a helluva ride with a lot of ups and downs, and you guys always stuck with me and supported me, so I appreciate it."Larger-than-life placards of Nowitzki's face were perched on most of the roughly 20,000 seats at American Airlines Center, and a huge mural hung over one of the entrances to the arena.Nowitzki, a few steps slower than in his prime and a role player on a team now led by rookie sensation and fellow European Luka Doncic, was serenaded in every road arena like it was a farewell tour.Last month, he gave the home folks the thrill of passing Wilt Chamberlain to regain sixth on the career scoring list. Nowitzki reached that spot last season, but LeBron James passed him. Nowitzki, who led the Mavericks to their only championship in 2011, has 31,540 points with one game left.The NBA's highest-scoring foreign-born player broke Kobe Bryant's record of 20 seasons with the same franchise, although it took longer than expected because of setbacks following ankle surgery that sidelined Nowitzki for the first 26 games. Bryant retired from the Lakers three years ago.___
DURHAM, N.C. — Cam Reddish is the latest Duke freshman to leave school for the NBA draft.Reddish announced his decision on his verified Instagram page Thursday, one day after teammate RJ Barrett said he was entering the draft. School spokesman Mike DeGeorge says Reddish has hired an agent.Reddish averaged 13.5 points and hit 33 percent of his 3-pointers, with several coming in clutch situations. That includes one with 0.8 seconds remaining to lift Duke past Florida State in January.Reddish is widely projected as a lottery pick.His decision leaves AP player of the year Zion Williamson as the last Duke freshman starter yet to announce his plans for next season. Point guard Tre Jones said earlier this week he would return for his sophomore year.____
LOS ANGELES — The Big3 basketball league will have its games televised this season on CBS and CBS Sports Network.The 3-on-3 league of former NBA players co-founded by Ice Cube and Jeff Kwatinetz has expanded from eight to 12 teams for the upcoming season, which starts on June 22. CBS and CBS Sports Network will combine to show more than 45 hours of live coverage, including more than 20 hours on network television.CBS Sports Network will air the league's draft on May 1. Fox and Fox Sports 1 televised the games during the league's first two seasons.Kwatinetz says in a phone interview with The Associated Press that the group is still planning on making a bid for Fox's regional sports networks. The 22 networks are being sold by Disney after its merger with Fox. Disney must sell the networks in order to gain regulatory approval.___
MILWAUKEE — D'Angelo Russell had 25 points and 10 assists, and the Brooklyn Nets beat the short-handed Milwaukee Bucks 133-128 on Saturday to improve their positioning in the Eastern Conference playoff race.Brooklyn (40-40) made 19 3-pointers and placed eight players in double figures. Caris LeVert had 24 points, and Jared Dudley finished with 16.The Nets, who had dropped four of five, moved into sixth place in the East. Orlando also is 40-40, and Detroit is a half-game back with a 39-40 record.Milwaukee played without MVP candidate Giannis Antetokounmpo, who was sidelined by a left calf injury. The Bucks (59-21) clinched the NBA's best record with a road victory against Philadelphia on Thursday night.Eric Bledsoe had 33 points and 11 assists for Milwaukee, and Khris Middleton finished with 24 points.
Luke Walton and the Kings have agreed to a multi-year contract to make him Sacramento's next coach, The Athletic reported.Walton met with Kings general manager Vlade Divac on Saturday, and The Athletic's Sam Amick reported the two had reached agreement on a deal that is expected to run through the 2022-23 season.ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski said an official announcement could come this weekend.The Los Angeles Lakers and Walton, 39, parted ways on Friday.Walton compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as the Lakers' head coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three campaigns.Since Rick Adelman left Sacramento in 2006 after eight seasons, the Kings have had nine head coaches.The most recent was Dave Joerger, who was fired on Thursday.Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs.--Field Level Media
LOS ANGELES — Ralph Lawler called his 3,229th and last regular season game for the Los Angeles Clippers on Wednesday night.They even obliged his trademark Lawler's Law, which states the first team to 100 points wins.Montrezl Harrell's dunk gave the Clippers that many points near the end of the third quarter and they went on to beat the Utah Jazz 143-137 in overtime.The eighth-seeded Clippers open the playoffs this weekend against the defending champion Golden State Warriors.Lawler, who turns 81 on April 21, plans to end his 60-year broadcasting career whenever the Clippers are eliminated from the playoffs. He's handled their games for 40 years."I love you people," he told the crowd that gave him a standing ovation during a halftime ceremony.He noted many of them, including comedian Billy Crystal, have been coming since the Clippers played at the old Los Angeles Sports Arena in "the darkest days any franchise could have only imagined. God love you for still being here."The recently named Hall of Fame broadcaster was joined by friend and former on-air partner Bill Walton to call the game at Staples Center."It's been 20 years or so since we worked together. I got to say two or three words in the first half," Lawler told the crowd. "Reuniting with him has been a special night."Before the game, the team unveiled an on-court logo honoring Lawler, and the players wore special shooting shirts thanking him.Team owner Steve Ballmer donned the same black-and-white "Thank you Ralph!" T-shirt over a long-sleeved shirt.Fans signed an oversized card outside the arena and the first 10,000 received Lawler bobbleheads, which recite some of his signature phrases such as "Bingo!" and "Oh me, oh my!""This is a night the likes of which I could never have possibly imagined," he said.The Clippers made 12 3-pointers, with fans holding up placards reading "Bingo" and shouting it out on each one.The team estimated that Lawler has traveled 1.67 million miles, called games in 91 cities in six countries, talked over 500,000 minutes on the air, and had a career longer than eight NBA franchises.
Dwyane Wade was hoping to extend his legendary career into at least four postseason games.Instead, Wade's career will end Wednesday night when the Heat visit the playoff-bound Brooklyn Nets, who can clinch the sixth seed in the Eastern Conference.Wade, 37, announced his retirement on Sept 16 before training camp began, and this season has been a farewell tour filled with a few magical moments and some postgame jersey exchanges.Despite the good feelings of celebrating Wade's storied career, which began as the No. 5 overall draft pick in 2003 and includes NBA championships in 2006, 2012 and 2013, the Heat were unable to do enough to reach the postseason this year.Miami was formally eliminated Tuesday night as Wade's career was celebrated in front of home fans for the final time. Wade scored 30 points in his first start of the season in a 122-99 rout of the Philadelphia 76ers, exited to a standing ovation in the final minute and exchanged jerseys with Jimmy Butler."I'm still just amazed, even after all these years," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "I've seen him go into his bag of tricks so many times and just compartmentalize. But I'm truly amazed that he was able to perform like that tonight."Wade's final moments in front of the home fans occurred after the Detroit Pistons (40-41) stormed back from a 22-point deficit to beat the Memphis Grizzlies and eliminate the Heat (39-42).Miami will miss the postseason for the third time in five seasons since LeBron James returned to Cleveland in 2014.The Heat were one game over .500 three times but only reached the .500 mark once since Jan. 27 and were done in by losing four straight before Tuesday.Brooklyn (41-40) will face either third-seeded Philadelphia or second-seeded Toronto in the first round of the playoffs. The Nets are even with Orlando but own the head-the-head tiebreaker and would finish sixth with a win or if the Magic lose Wednesday at Charlotte.The Nets are in this position because of what unfolded in a challenging road back-to-back set. After getting a five-point win at Milwaukee on Saturday, Brooklyn led most of the way and celebrated clinching a playoff berth with a 108-96 victory at Indiana on Sunday."To be honest, it is a big moment for us and a big moment for the organization, from where we've come from in the last couple of years, the improvement that we've had individually and collectively," Nets guard Joe Harris said at practice Tuesday. "Just to clinch a playoff spot, it's a big moment for the organization for sure, and we're all very happy. But at the same time, we still have Miami left to finish out the year the right way, and we still want to make some noise in the playoffs and make it competitive."By clinching Sunday, the Nets are in a position to rest players, and two may be out. DeMarre Carroll will sit out due to a sprained right wrist while Harris -- who leads the NBA in 3-point shooting percentage -- is questionable because of a sore right foot.--Field Level Media
INDIANAPOLIS — D'Angelo Russell scored 20 points and Joe Harris added 19 on Sunday, leading the Brooklyn Nets to a 108-96 victory over the Indiana Pacers and back into the NBA playoffs for the first time in four years.The Nets moved into position to clinch when Miami lost in overtime at Toronto earlier in the day. It's also the first time since 2014-15 the Nets have not posted a losing record.Domantas Sabonis finished with 17 points and 12 rebounds to lead the Pacers. Thaddeus Young scored 16 in a game coach Nate McMillan promised to closely monitor the minutes his players logged.And Brooklyn wasted no time in taking full advantage of that opportunity to end the NBA's sixth-longest active playoff drought.The Nets scored the first nine points and forced three turnovers in less than two minutes, an early barrage that forced Indiana to spend most of the game playing catch-up.Twice the Pacers took the lead on 3-pointers, from Myles Turner and Wesley Matthews, but Russell answered the second one with a 9-footer to give Brooklyn a 19-18 lead with 4:19 left in the first quarter.Indiana never led again.Instead, the Nets steadily extended the lead. They were up 52-44 at the half, scored the last seven points of the third quarter to make it 82-69 and used two 3s early in the fourth to build a 95-78 cushion.TIP-INSNets: Also ended a nine-game losing streak in the series and a seven-game losing streak at Indiana to avoid a second straight season sweep. ... Caris LeVert finished with 18 points while Spencer Dinwiddie and Jarrett Allen each scored 12. Dinwiddie had six assists. Allen had eight rebounds. ... Brooklyn was 11 of 36 on 3s, moving within 16 of breaking the franchise record (1,041) set last season. ... The Nets had a 52-33 rebounding advantage including a 17-5 edge in offensive rebounds. ... Russell's streak of four straight games with 25 or more points ended. ... DeMarre Carroll left midway through the third quarter and headed to the locker room with an undisclosed injury. He did not return to the game.Pacers: Have lost five of seven and their last two home games to fall to close out the regular season at 29-12 at home. ... Sabonis recorded his 30th double-double of the season. ... Bojan Bogdanovic had 13 points, while Cory Joseph added 12. ... Myles Turner finished with six points, four rebounds and three blocks before leaving with a sore right ankle midway through the third quarter. He did not return. ... Darren Collison was 2 of 12 from the field and missed all four of his 3-pointers after missing the previous three games with an injured groin. He had four points and six assists.UP NEXTNets: Will celebrate their playoff berth by closing the regular season at home against Miami on Wednesday.Pacers: Can pick up their first season sweep of the Hawks since 2004-05 with a win at Atlanta on Wednesday.__
SAN ANTONIO — Dirk Nowitzki said goodbye to the NBA the same way he came into the league, smoothly draining a jumper over a defender to punctuate a passionate performance.It was only fitting that Nowitzki's final shot came against the San Antonio Spurs, a team he terrorized in the regular season and postseason. This time, however, the tears it stirred were tears of joy.LaMarcus Aldridge had 34 points and 16 rebounds and the Spurs beat the Dallas Mavericks 105-94 Wednesday night in Nowitzki's final game."Everybody, players, fans, coaches and staff got to witness history watching him play his last game," San Antonio coach Gregg Popovich said. "He played a fine game, which was great. It's not surprising."Nowitzki finished with 20 points and 10 rebounds in the finale of his storied 21-season career — all with the Mavericks. Nowitzki announced he was retiring Tuesday night following Dallas' final home game of the season.Wednesday's sell-out crowd cheered wildly each time Nowitzki entered the game or touched the ball and let out a collective groan when he missed a shot. He was serenaded with chants of "MVP!" throughout the game by the crowd filled with patrons wearing his No. 41 jersey."It was fantastic again tonight," Nowitzki said. "Felt almost like a home game, honestly."The Spurs couldn't afford any sentimentality with playoff positioning at stake, and they didn't show any. San Antonio raced to a double-figure lead and led by as many as 22 points.The Spurs finished seventh in the Western Conference as a result of Oklahoma City's 127-116 victory over Milwaukee. They will face the No. 2 seed, either Denver or Houston, in the opening round of the playoffs.The regular-season finale turned out to be a win for everyone. San Antonio won, Nowitzki led the Mavericks in scoring and Popovich, the Spurs and San Antonio's fans got to say goodbye to the future Hall of Famer."He was having a lot of fun tonight, I was really happy for him," Popovich said.It was appropriate that Nowitzki's final game came against the Spurs, who he has had many memorable battles against. Perhaps the most memorable was the 2006 Western Conference finals against San Antonio. After the Spurs battled back from a 3-1 series deficit and a 20-point lead in Game 7, Manu Ginobili fouled Nowitzki on a layup with 21.6 seconds remaining. Nowitzki made the free throw to forge a tie and the Mavs went on to win in overtime on the way to the franchise's first NBA Finals appearance."If it's not at home, this kind of works perfect," Nowitzki said of San Antonio. "This team was always sort of the big brother. They were beating us and then we kind of found a way to get through them in '06. To me, probably still one of the best playoff series I've been a part of and probably some of the best basketball in that series that I've ever played in my life."Nowitzki was able to turn back the clock, shooting 8 for 21 in 32 minutes, including going 2 for 6 on 3-pointers. His final shot was a 20-footer over Spurs rookie Drew Eubanks with 49.7 seconds remaining.Dallas coach Rick Carlisle subbed Nowitzki following the shot, leading to an ovation of cheers and chants of "Dirk" and "MVP."
OAKLAND, Calif. — DeMarcus Cousins has a torn left quadriceps muscle that will sideline the Golden State center indefinitely, a devastating injury that the Warriors feared was serious when he went down in the first quarter of their first-round playoff loss to the Clippers.An MRI exam Tuesday morning on Cousins' left leg revealed the tear. The two-time defending NBA champion Warriors said Cousins will begin rehabilitation immediately and updates will be "provided as appropriate."Coach Steve Kerr said after the Warriors' 135-131 Game 2 loss on Monday night that Cousins would be out for a significant period.Playing in just his second career postseason game after a nine-year wait, Cousins went down in the first quarter in front of the Golden State bench after swiping a ball from Patrick Beverley in the back court. He immediately grabbed at his left quad. Cousins hobbled to the locker room at the 8:09 mark.Cousins had just returned in January from a nearly yearlong absence following surgery for a torn left Achilles tendon suffered while with the Pelicans last season.He had two points, two rebounds and an assist in less than 4 minutes Monday. He fouled out of Saturday's 121-104 Game 1 win with nine points, nine rebounds and four assists in 21 minutes."I know it's frustrating for him. I've been through something like that, getting hurt, getting all the way back and then getting hurt again, so I know how frustrating it is," Warriors center Kevon Looney said. "He is a resilient guy. He's been through adversity before and I know he's going to bounce back. His spirit is probably low right now, but he's a tough guy and he'll be back better than ever."Looney picked up more minutes with Cousins' injury and scored a career-high 19 points while making all six of his shots in 19 minutes. Kerr is likely to use a combination of shot-blocking presence Andrew Bogut and Looney going forward this postseason.Bogut's signing last month for a second stint with the franchise means so much more now. Kerr called him an "insurance policy" and Bogut — who had been playing back home in Australia — has made the most of his chances. He had nine rebounds, three points and a blocked shot in 16 minutes Monday.He played on the Warriors' 2015 championship team and the 73-win team the following season that lost in Game 7 of the NBA Finals to LeBron James and the Cavaliers.The No. 1 overall draft pick in 2005 out of Utah, Bogut has been open to any role Kerr chooses for him, which now could be starting."Obviously, there will be more minutes," he said after the game. "It'll still be matchup dependent, but I anticipate probably starting games, playing the first three or four minutes and then coming out."Stephen Curry expects the backups to fill the void as the Warriors' depth has done all season, with Jordan Bell also likely to be in the mix."Exactly what they've been doing. They've been playing amazing the last part of the regular season and these first two games," Curry said. "... It may look a little different considering the skill and talent and level that Boogie can bring when he's healthy."___
CLEVELAND — The Cavaliers' next coach will inherit a better situation than the one Larry Drew got handed.Drew and the Cavs parted ways Thursday after a challenging, 19-win season that followed LeBron James leaving for Los Angeles and included a rash of injuries to a young roster.Although expected, Drew's departure creates more work for a franchise that will sit out the NBA playoffs this season following a four-year run in the Finals with James.The 61-year-old Drew met with general manager Koby Altman, and the two decided it was best if they went in separate directions. Altman said in a release that Drew "respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers."The Cavs tied for the league's second-worst record with Phoenix, but Drew kept his team playing hard until the end. He received praise from many of his players, including All-Star forward Kevin Love, who was limited to just 22 games following toe surgery."We have great respect and appreciation for Larry and the job that he did as the head coach of the Cavaliers for nearly the entire 2018-19 campaign. He brought professionalism, class and steady leadership both this past season and prior four years," Altman said in a release. "All of us in Cleveland wish Larry nothing but the best going forward."Altman will embark on a search for Cleveland's fifth coach since 2013. The Cavs will consider college coaches, NBA assistants and former head coaches to continue the rebuild Drew started.Altman is scheduled to outline some of his plans during a news conference Friday at the team's facility in Independence.The Cavs' job is enticing on several fronts. Owner Dan Gilbert has displayed a willingness to spend and Cleveland could land one of the top college prospects depending on how things go in next month's draft lottery.Drew took over when Tyronn Lue, who led the Cavs to a title in 2016, was fired Oct. 28 following a 0-6 start. The 61-year-old Drew spent three seasons with the Cavs, joining Lue's staff for the championship season.When he replaced Lue, Drew, who previously coached in Atlanta and Milwaukee, knew the Cavs might go in another direction at some point and asked the team to restructure his contract.Drew's steadying influence helped the Cavs endure injuries which led to him use a league-high 32 different lineups. He also helped in the development of rookie point guard Collin Sexton, who finished strong after a slow start and appears to be a building block for the future."I want to thank Dan Gilbert, Koby Altman, the entire organization, and especially our fans, for what has been a very special and rewarding time here in Cleveland," Drew said. "Koby and I had a good discussion following the season and have both decided that the best decision for each of us was that I would not return to coach the team. I am very proud of what we accomplished over the last several years together and will always cherish our championship."I also want to commend our players this season for the bond that they established, the way they approached their jobs and the hard work and growth they had every day. I am very proud of them and wish them the best as they continue to develop for the future."___
CLEVELAND — Kemba Walker scored 23 points and the Charlotte Hornets pulled away in the fourth quarter to keep their late-season playoff push going with a 124-97 win Tuesday night over the Cleveland Cavaliers, whose painful first season rebuilding without LeBron James is finally over.The Hornets (39-42) had to win to have any chance of beating out Detroit and Miami for the No. 8 spot in the Eastern Conference. Charlotte did its part and must now beat Orlando at home on Wednesday and hope the Pistons (39-42) lose in New York to clinch its first playoff berth in three years.Detroit rallied to beat Memphis 100-93, setting up a dramatic final day of the season.Jeremy Lamb added 23 points and Miles Bridges and Dwayne Bacon scored 18 apiece as the Hornets won their fourth straight.The Cavs dropped their 10th in a row to finish 19-63, the fourth-worst record in franchise history and just the fifth time they've failed to win at least 20.Cleveland again played without star forward Kevin Love, whose season was sabotaged early by a toe injury that required surgery and altered everything for the Cavs. Love's situation made things even tougher on the Cavs, who initially believed they could compete while recovering from the loss of James as a free agent for the second time.Now the focus turns to coach Larry Drew's future and next month's NBA draft lottery.Rookie Collin Sexton scored 18 points and had a season-high 10 assists for the Cavs. He also joined Larry Bird (1979-80) and Stephen Curry (2009-10) as the only rookies in league history to average at least 16 points while making over 40% of their 3-pointers and 80% of their free throws.If the Hornets get back to the postseason for the first time in three years, Walker will be the reason.The three-time All-Star, who is scheduled to become a free agent on July 1, is averaging 34.4 points in his last five games.TIP-INSHornets: F Michael Kidd-Gilchrist was not with the team for the second straight game because of personal reasons. ... Walker enters Wednesday's game — perhaps the final one of his career with Charlotte — as the franchise leader in points and made 3-pointers, field goals and free throws. He's second in assists behind Muggsy Bogues and third in games played behind Dell Curry and Bogues.Cavaliers: Love played 13 minutes on Sunday as a salute to close friend Channing Frye, who is retiring after 13 seasons. Love was limited to just 22 games this season because of the toe and other injuries. He'll consider playing this summer for Team USA. ... Frye was given a rousing ovation when he checked in and a video tribute from former teammates was shown. Dwyane Wade said, "I thought you already retired." Frye scored 10 in the fourth quarter. ... Sexton scored in double figures in his final 23 games. He's the first Cavs rookie to play all 82 games since Andre Miller in 1999-2000. ... G Matthew Dellavedova missed the final 17 games with a concussion sustained on March 6 at Brooklyn.UP NEXTHornets: Lost to the Magic, Wednesday's opponent, by 38 on Feb. 14.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Tiger Woods won his 15th major championship at age 43 by walking away from Augusta National Sunday with his fifth Masters green jacket. Here are some other notable over-40 champions:— Kareem Abdul-Jabbar: Helped push the Los Angeles Lakers to two NBA titles in 1987 and 1988 at the ages of 40 and 41.— Tom Brady: The NFL quarterback Lead the New England Patriots to a Super Bowl win over the Los Angeles Rams in February at 41 years of age.— Chris Chelios: Helped the Detroit Red Wings win the NHL Stanley Cup in 2002 at age 40.— Dale Earnhardt: The NASCAR driver won two Winston Cup titles in 1993 and 1994 at the age of 42 and 43.— George Foreman: He became the heavyweight boxing champion of the world in 1994 at 45 years old by knocking out Michael Moorer.— Ben Hogan: Won three golf majors over the age of 40, including the Masters, U.S. Open and the British Open.— Jack Nicklaus: The Golden Bear is the most obvious comparable to Woods. He won the 1986 Masters at 46 years old. It was his 18th and final major victory.— Dave Winfield: Won a World Series with the Toronto Blue Jays in 1992 at age 41.
OAKLAND, Calif. — Lou Williams led the Los Angeles Clippers to the largest postseason comeback in NBA history.Landry Shamet hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 16.5 seconds left, Stephen Curry couldn't answer on the other end, and the Clippers somehow rallied from 31 points down on the road to stun the Golden State Warriors 135-131 on Monday night and even their first-round playoff series at one game apiece.The comeback topped a 29-point rally by the Los Angeles Lakers in the 1989 Western Conference semifinals over Seattle. The Clippers confirmed it's the best comeback ever."That's a record we didn't necessarily want to have. We'll take it," Williams said. "You're competitive and you get lost in the game. Once you cut the lead to 12, you cut the lead to 10, then you realize you've got a game going. I'm one of those guys who can get hot."Curry scored 29 points and put the Warriors up 131-128 with 58 seconds left before Shamet's dagger on a night the two-time defending NBA champions lost DeMarcus Cousins to a leg injury in the first quarter."We changed a couple things offensively and defensively in the third on the fly. It worked out for us. But I thought it was our spirit more than anything," Clippers coach Doc Rivers said. "Just every single guy. I loved the end of the game."Williams tied the game on a jumper with 1:10 to play then Curry immediately answered. Williams scored again at 46 seconds and finished with 36 points and made 8 of 10 free throws in as the teams combined for 64 fouls and 76 free throws attempted."When I say we stopped playing, we stopped playing, like defense, offense, execution-wise we were not as engaged as we needed to be," Warriors coach Steve Kerr said. "We got exactly what we deserved. The Clippers were great. They executed, they were hungry, they stayed connected. They were together."Cousins injured his left quadriceps muscle in the first quarter and was done for the game, but Golden State's depth shined and the Warriors built a 23-point halftime lead they pushed to a 31-point advantage before failing to hold off Los Angeles late.Williams' jumper and three-point play with 5:34 left pulled the Clippers within 120-117 then he rebounded his own miss and scored the putback at the 5:05 mark and cut it to 121-119."The wheels fell off," Curry said.Cousins was scheduled to undergo an MRI exam after the injury in just his second career playoff game following a nine-year wait. The big man returned in January from a nearly year-long absence following surgery for a torn left Achilles tendon.He won't play in Game 3 on Thursday at Staples Center and Cousins' entire postseason is in serious doubt.Kerr said Cousins will be out "a while.""There's a pretty significant quad injury," Kerr said.
DENVER — Nikola Jokic scored 29 points and had a key strip in the closing seconds for the Denver Nuggets, who scored the game's final 15 points in a 99-95 win over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Wednesday night that secured the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs."We didn't give up," Jokic told the crowd after the Nuggets pulled out the improbable win to set up a first-round playoff series with the seventh-seeded San Antonio Spurs, instead of sixth-seeded Oklahoma City.The Nuggets are in the postseason for the first time in six years.Jamal Murray added 17 points, including the go-ahead 3-pointer with 31 seconds left that put Denver up 96-95. Jokic stripped Andrew Wiggins, who led the Timberwolves with 25 points, and then sank two free throws for a three-point cushion.Wiggins' 3-pointer to tie it hit the front of the rim and the Nuggets got the ball back. Paul Millsap was fouled at the other end with 4.2 seconds remaining. He sank his first free throw and missed his second, but teammate Will Barton corralled the rebound and dribbled out the clock.Gorgui Dieng added 18 points for the Timberwolves backups and rookie Cameron Reynolds scored a career-best 17 points, including a 3-pointer that put Minnesota ahead 95-84 with 4:01 left.They wouldn't score again.Jokic also pulled down 14 rebounds one night after his worst game of the year, one in which he scored just two points before fouling out in 16 minutes in a loss at Utah.A year ago, these two teams met on the final day of the regular season with a lot more at stake. The Timberwolves won that one in overtime in the first final-day play-in game in the NBA in 21 years, ending a 14-year playoff absence and extending Denver's drought to six seasons.Then, All-Star Jimmy Butler demanded a trade that torpedoed the Timberwolves, who fell to 36-46 and reverted to also-ran status while the Nuggets put together a 54-28 breakout for their first trip to the playoffs since 2012-13."Each one of our players deserves credit, because they've all bought in from Day 1," Malone said. "And I think we've used that motivation of losing in Minneapolis last year Game 82 because coming up short two years in a row is really hard and it's kind of motivated us to be the team we are right now."TIP-INS:Timberwolves: Minnesota played without starters Karl Anthony-Towns (right knee), Jeff Teague (left foot) and Robert Covington (right knee) and key reserves Taj Gibson (left calf) and Derrick Rose (right elbow).Nuggets: Denver finished an NBA-best 34-7 at home. ... The Nuggets earned a No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs for the sixth time in their history and for the first time since 2008-09, when they last won a playoff series, 4-1 over the Mavericks in the conference semifinals. They have lost their last five playoff series.FIRST THINGS FIRST
MILWAUKEE — Oklahoma City wanted a win to avoid slipping into a first-round playoff matchup against the defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors.The Milwaukee Bucks, with the NBA's best record already clinched, just needed to stay healthy.Everybody got what they wanted Wednesday night.Russell Westbrook posted his 34th triple-double of the season and the Thunder beat the Bucks' backups 127-116 to lock up the sixth seed in the Western Conference playoffs.Oklahoma City (49-33) played without injured Paul George, but Westbrook, Jerami Grant and Dennis Schroder led a hot-shooting effort. Oklahoma City made a franchise-record 23 3-pointers and handed out a franchise-best 40 assists, converting 48 of 99 shots to win their fifth in a row."Good teams always respond," Schroder said. "We do whatever it takes to go out there and compete and play with each other. We live with the result."Now the playoffs come. Now everybody is excited."Westbrook had 15 points, 17 assists and 11 rebounds. He moved into a tie with Magic Johnson for second place on the career triple-double list with 138, behind only Oscar Robertson (181)."It's a blessing," Westbrook said.Schroder was 8-of-15 shooting beyond the arc and had a game-leading 32 points. Grant hit four 3s and added a career-high 28 points.The Bucks (60-22) rested star Giannis Antetokounmpo and some other key players. They found out moments after the game that they would face eighth-seeded Detroit in the first round of the playoffs.The Pistons secured a playoff berth with a win over the New York Knicks on Wednesday.Khris Middleton was the only usual Bucks starter in the starting five, and he scored 21 points in 17 minutes.Point guard Tim Frazier scored a career-high 29 points and added 13 assists for Milwaukee and D.J. Wilson had a career-high 18 points while grabbing 17 rebounds. Rookie Bonzie Colson started and scored 21 points.Middleton said the Bucks are more confident entering the playoffs than they have been in the past. The franchise has not won a playoff series since the 2000-01 season and has not had homecourt advantage in the first round in the last eight first-round series.
CLEVELAND — LaMarcus Aldridge had 18 points and 13 rebounds as the San Antonio Spurs, who are in a three-team scramble to determine playoff seeding in the Western Conference, extended Cleveland's losing streak to nine games by beating the Cavaliers 112-90 on Sunday.The Spurs recently clinched a postseason spot for a NBA record-tying 22nd year in a row, but they don't yet know who they'll play in the first round. San Antonio came into the day in eighth place, which would mean an early matchup with defending champion Golden State.However, the Spurs can still move ahead of Oklahoma City and the Los Angeles Clippers as they own tiebreakers with both teams.DeMar DeRozan and Patty Mills added 14 points apiece for the balanced Spurs, who turned back every Cleveland challenge in the second half. Mills made three 3-pointers in a two-minute span early in the fourth quarter to end any chances of the Cavs rallying.Rookie Collin Sexton and Brandon Knight scored 16 each for Cleveland, and the Cavs celebrated the upcoming retirement of forward Channing Frye throughout the game.Kevin Love returned after missing four games and played 13 minutes in the first half — a salute to Frye, his close friend.San Antonio didn't pull away from Cleveland until midway through the second quarter and the Spurs used a 9-0 run over the final 2:05 to open a 62-46 halftime lead.With the popular Frye retiring after Tuesday's game and 13 seasons, Cavs coach Larry Drew started the 35-year-old for the first time since Jan. 9.Love wanted to play alongside Frye one last time and subbed in during the first quarter wearing his friend's No. 45 college jersey from the University of Arizona over his Cavaliers' jersey. The gesture couldn't have been easy for Love, who played at rival UCLA.When Frye hit a 3-pointer for Cleveland's first points, the Cavs bench erupted and the reserves, who all wore shooting shirts with "Channing" on the back, celebrated with high-fives.Frye, a key member of the Cavs' 2016 title team, played the first seven minutes and pretended to collapse on the bench when he finally came out.When he was pulled with 1:34 left in the game, Frye received a loud ovation before being tackled to the floor by teammates.TIP-INSSpurs: San Antonio's playoff streak is the longest active one in the league. Golden State and Houston are tied for second with seven. ... G Marco Belinelli (left hip soreness) sat out the first half. He didn't score in 10 minutes. ... Coach Gregg Popovich had kind words for Frye. "He's one of those stretch-4-kind-of guys we always talk about that really had an impact," Popovich said. "Most of my memories of him were in Phoenix, where he was really a big problem for us. He did such a great job and really cemented that, it's going to be part of the NBA forever — shooting big guys — and he was great at it. He's been a great teammate."Cavaliers: Sexton came in averaging 23.9 points over his past 15 games. ... G Matthew Dellavedova missed his 16th straight game with a concussion. ... Coach Larry Drew said he has not discussed his future with the club. Drew took over when Tyronn Lue was fired in October after a 0-6 start. Drew received a pay raise and new contract from the Cavs, which includes a team option for next season.
STONY BROOK, N.Y. — The Rio Grande Valley Vipers are G League champions for the third time.Isaiah Hartenstein scored 30 points, Dakarai Tucker and Michael Frazier each added 24 and the Vipers — the Houston Rockets' affiliate — never trailed on the way to beating the Long Island Nets 129-112 on Friday night in Game 3 of the G League Finals.Gary Payton II added 17 for the Vipers. Rio Grande Valley won the series 2-1, and added this title to ones the franchise claimed in 2010 and 2013 when what's now the G League was known as the NBA Development League.A 24-2 run in the second quarter put the game away for the Vipers, who lost Game 1 of the title series before rallying to win the title.Hartenstein made a pair of 3-pointers in an early 8-0 run that put the Vipers up 30-16, and the barrage in the second quarter left no doubt. Jordan Johnson scored 10 points in the 24-2 spurt, including the first seven — those coming in a span of 52 seconds.Alan Williams scored 26 points, Dzanan Musa had 24 and Jordan McLaughlin added 22 for Long Island. The Nets, Brooklyn's affiliate, and the Vipers were among four teams who were tied for the G League's best regular-season record at 34-16.The G League had 27 teams this season, and will grow to 28 next season.
Little Caesars Arena in Detroit will finally host its first playoff game — in what is probably the last chance the Pistons have to make their series against Milwaukee competitive."Let's make it hard on them," Detroit coach Dwane Casey said. "Let's make it a home atmosphere, because we need everything."The Milwaukee-Detroit matchup is one of two series shifting sites Saturday. Houston and Utah will also play Game 3 in Salt Lake City. There are a couple Game 4s on tap as well: Philadelphia at Brooklyn, and Denver at San Antonio.The Pistons are in their second season at their new arena, but even after moving downtown, they've had their share of small, dreary crowds — similar to the atmosphere during their final years at The Palace of Auburn Hills. But there's every reason to expect a more charged scene Saturday night. Little Caesars Arena has hosted the NCAA and Horizon League tournaments in basketball, but there have been no home playoff games yet for the Pistons — or for the Red Wings, who also play there."I hope we're building trust with our fans by getting the first step of getting into the playoffs, because we have some great, knowledgeable basketball fans here in Detroit," Casey said. "We've got to make sure we come out and represent them, but we need all them to come out the way they treated us in Milwaukee — like we stole something."The Pistons were drubbed in the series opener 121-86. They played better in Game 2, even leading at halftime, but they still lost 120-99 to the top-seeded Bucks.Houston is also up 2-0 in its series against Utah. James Harden is coming off a triple-double of 32 points, 13 rebounds and 10 assists Wednesday night. The Rockets won the first two games by a combined 52 points.Philadelphia leads Brooklyn 2-1 after winning on the road Thursday night. The 76ers were held to 102 points in a Game 1 loss but have been impressive since, winning 145-123 in Game 2 and then 131-115 on Thursday . Tobias Harris made all six of his 3-point attempts in Game 3.San Antonio took a 2-1 lead over Denver with a 118-108 victory in Game 3. Derrick White scored a career-high 36 points.A look at Saturday's games:76ERS AT NETS76ers lead, 2-1. Game 4, 3 p.m. EDT, TNT.NEED TO KNOW: Philadelphia coach Brett Brown isn't sure if Joel Embiid will play, but the 76ers were just fine without their All-Star center in Game 3.KEEP AN EYE ON: Brooklyn's lineup combinations. D'Angelo Russell, Spencer Dinwiddie and Caris LeVert all had big games when the Nets won the opener, so coach Kenny Atkinson needs to figure out how much he can get his best ball handlers on the floor for more time, while still being able to rebound and defend against a much bigger lineup.INJURY WATCH: Embiid worked out Friday at practice but Brown said he didn't have a gut feeling either way whether Embiid's left knee would feel well enough for him to play. The Sixers have depth behind him with Greg Monroe and Boban Marjanovic, who combined for 23 points and 21 rebounds in Game 3.
MINNEAPOLIS — Virginia pulled off one of the great redemption stories in NCAA Tournament history, winning its first national title a year after losing to a No. 16 seed in the first round.The bad news: it's seven months until the next season.The confetti is still being swept up in Minnesota, but it's never too early to start looking ahead for college basketball fans.OK, maybe it is a little too early, but we're going to do it anyway.A look at a way-too-early poll for the 2019-20 season:1. Michigan State. The Spartans made it to the Final Four without Joshua Langford. He should be healthy and nearly everyone should be back.2. Virginia. De'Andre Hunter is a projected NBA lottery pick, so he's likely be gone. If Ty Jerome returns, the Cavaliers could be in the running for a second straight title.3. Kentucky. Another year, another big roster turnover. Then again, Coach John Calipari has another stellar recruiting class coming in.4. Michigan. The Wolverines were not supposed be this good this year. Even with Charles Matthews likely leaving, they're expected to be good in 2019-20 if no one else leaves.5. Duke. Zion, R.J. and Cam will not be back. Tre Jones is, so the Blue Devils should be in good shape with another top-notch recruiting class coming to Durham.6. Marquette. Ranking the Golden Eagles this high is all about Markus Howard. He doesn't come back, they drop several spots.7. Gonzaga. Rui Hachimura may leave Spokane early, but if Brandon Clarke doesn't, watch out for the Zags.8. Oregon. No Bol Bol (likely), but Payton Pritchard, Louis King (maybe) and a strong recruiting class is going to be tough to beat.9. Kansas. The Lawson brothers are gone, but getting the big Doke back is huge for the Jayhawks.10. Maryland. Losing Bruno Fernando would hurt, but there's a lot coming back.
CHICAGO — Former President Barack Obama's foundation collected contributions of more than $1 million from 11 firms and individuals in the first three months of 2019, records show.The Obama Foundation's donor list, which is updated quarterly, included the AT&T Foundation and the W.K. Kellogg Foundation on Monday, along with other family trusts and foundations. The list also included foreign investors like Malaysian businessman Tony Fernandes, who is chief executive of AirAsia, and Rumi Verjee, who is a member of the British House of Lords.The foundation, which is responsible for developing the Obama Presidential Center in Chicago, lists the donors by monetary range instead of detailing the specific amount each donor gave. Other notable donors who gave from January through March of this year include Dropbox co-founder Andrew "Drew" Houston and the San Francisco 49ers.The latest update that includes wealthy and charitable individuals and families differs from last year's list of donors. During 2018, the Obama Foundation drew celebrity support, including from Oprah Winfrey, Shonda Rimes and NBA star Stephen Curry's foundation.The foundation didn't disclose Monday how much money it has on hand specifically to build the presidential center campus. The foundation's annual report and tax documents show that it raised more than $232 million from private donors during 2017 and spent about $21.3 million on operations.The foundation plans to build the Obama Presidential Center on about 19 acres of parkland on Chicago's South Side. Officials want to break ground this year on the estimated $500 million project but a federal lawsuit and federal review process have stalled construction.
Rachelle Lefevre plays the leader of a law firm specializing in reversing wrongful convictions in a new Fox legal drama. And a Jordan Peele-produced Amazon series revisits Lorena Bobbitt.PROVEN INNOCENT 9 p.m. on Fox. What’s more satisfying than watching justice doled out from the comfort of your couch? The latest legal drama to hit television hopes that the answer is this: watching injustices be reversed. That’s the premise of this new show, which stars Rachelle Lefevre as a lawyer who was once wrongfully convicted of murder and, after having her name cleared, became the leader of a law firm specializing in fighting wrongful sentences. Russell Hornsby plays her legal partner. Kelsey Grammer plays the rotten state’s attorney who put Lefevre’s character behind bars; he’s now her main adversary in the courtroom. The series was created by Danny Strong — one of the creators of “Empire” — and the screenwriter David Elliot.NBA ALL-STAR CELEBRITY GAME 7 p.m. on ESPN. Bojangles’ Coliseum in Charlotte, N.C., is the backdrop of this year’s NBA All-Star Celebrity Game, which pits a “home” team of names like the actor JB Smoove, the television personality Dr. Mehmet Oz and the rapper Rhapsody against an “away” team that includes the comedians Hasan Minhaj and Amanda Seales and the singer Bad Bunny. The rapper Quavo, a member of Migos and, less prominently, last year’s Celebrity Game M.V.P., will also play for the “away” team.LORENA Stream on Amazon. You probably know the story: in June 1993, Lorena Bobbitt cut off her husband’s penis with a kitchen knife. The next year, she was acquitted of criminal charges, but not before she had become a media sensation and the butt of scores of jokes, which often ignored evidence that she’d been a victim of domestic violence. Now, 25 years after her acquittal, she’s telling what happened on her own terms, in this new Jordan Peele-produced documentary series. “It’s like they all missed or didn’t care why I did what I did,” Bobbitt recently told The New York Times. “This is about a victim and a survivor,” she went on to say, “and this is about what’s happening in our world today.”THE NOTE: SHAPING THE SOUND OF NY Stream on Red Bull TV. Alexander Rosner survived the Holocaust and became a respected sound engineer in New York during the disco boom of the ’70s. He talks about his work in this short documentary, and about his latest gig: installing sound systems in churches.PERIOD. END OF SENTENCE. (2018) Stream on Netflix. Rayka Zehtabchi’s Oscar-nominated documentary short looks at the way a village in rural India is transformed by the installation of a sanitary-pad machine. Through that story, it delves into social attitudes regarding menstruation in India — a topic also notably explored in the Indian filmmaker R. Balki’s 2018 feature, “Padman,” which is also streaming on Netflix.
INDIANAPOLIS — The Boston Celtics keep following the same game plan.Three games into their first-round playoff series, it's still working.Another dominant second-half defensive performance Friday night helped the Celtics retake control of the game and another late scoring run helped them pull away from Indiana for a 104-96 victory and a 3-0 series lead."We've come a long way," All-Star guard Kyrie Irving said. "We're all making sure we're giving each other confidence and doing the little things to ensure we win. When you have that type of camaraderie, executing is a lot easier. Now that the stakes are higher, we're settling into who we want to be."While the names and numbers seem to change on a daily basis, the results have remained strikingly consistent.The Celtics turned Game 1 by limiting Indiana to eight third-quarter points and won by 10. In Game 2, the Celtics erased a double-digit deficit by allowing just 12 fourth-quarter points as they won by eight. This time, it was a 12-point third quarter that swung the momentum, leading Boston to its sixth straight win over Indiana — all since January.If they can do it one more time Sunday, last year's Eastern Conference runner-ups will be headed to the conference semifinals."In Game 4, we expect (Indiana) to take it to another level," Jaylen Brown said after scoring 23 points. "We've got to come out and not take our foot off the gas. We've got to come out and play great basketball and try to close this thing out."It seems Boston has an answer for every adjustment the Pacers make.With the league's best defense focused on holding Irving in check Friday, Brown went 8 of 9 from the field and grabbed seven rebounds Jayson Tatum added 18 points and seven rebounds and Irving was still productive with 19 points, 10 assists and five rebounds.For Indiana, it has been a nightmare of a series.After charging back from a 15-point first-quarter deficit to take a 61-59 halftime lead, Myles Turner opened the third with a 3-pointer to give the Pacers a five-point lead. Tyreke Evans matched his playoff career high with 19 points, 12 in the second quarter.But then the Celtics did it again.When Indiana's offense bogged down in the third, Boston scored eight straight points to retake the lead, closed the quarter on a 9-2 run and delivered the final blow with a 10-4 spurt late in the fourth to make it 98-92."In the third quarter, we lost our patience," Pacers coach Nate McMillan said. "We took quick shots, bailed them out, and lost our rhythm."
MILWAUKEE — Jared Dudley brought a veteran's presence and poise to a tense situation, helping the Brooklyn Nets to a crucial win in their bid for the playoffs.Dudley's offensive rebound set up Joe Harris' go-ahead 3-pointer with 1:24 left in Brooklyn's 133-128 victory over the short-handed Milwaukee Bucks on Saturday.Brooklyn (40-40) made 19 3-pointers and placed eight players in double figures. D'Angelo Russell had 25 points and 10 assists, reserve Caris LeVert scored 24 points and Dudley collected 14 of his season high-tying 16 points in the second half.The Nets, who had dropped four of five, moved into sixth place in the East. Orlando also is 40-40, and Detroit is a half-game back with a 39-40 record.The Nets have tiebreakers with both the Magic and Pistons.Milwaukee played without MVP candidate Giannis Antetokounmpo, who was sidelined by a left calf injury. The Bucks (59-21) clinched the NBA's best record with a road victory against Philadelphia on Thursday night."It was tough, even without Giannis," Dudley said. "I know that helped us. We just got key stops at the very end."I was playing center. They were going small ball. We wanted them to feel a little uncomfortable, having (Brook) Lopez having to guard a little more."Nets coach Kenny Atkinson called Dudley "the X factor" and said his instincts and understanding of the league contributed to Brooklyn's first win in four meetings with Milwaukee this season.Eric Bledsoe had 33 points and 11 assists for Milwaukee, and Khris Middleton finished with 24 points.Bledsoe's two foul shots made it 128-126 Bucks with 2:30 left, but the Nets closed the game with a 7-0 run. Russell made two free throws, Harris drilled his tiebreaking 3 and Russell drove for a basket with 59.1 seconds remaining."It was a room-and-rhythm look," Harris said of his triple. "Sometimes the best opportunity to get a 3 off is on an offensive rebound."Bucks coach Mike Budenholzer said Antetokounmpo was kicked or hit in the calf against the 76ers and understood sitting out could help him get ready for the playoffs next week."There has been a significant amount of success and winning that has helped him be less difficult," Budenholzer said. "I have flashbacks to the first couple games; he was upset every time I took him out of the game. When I think about that to where we are today, it has been great."Brooklyn shot 52% from the field and scored 36 points in the paint on its way to a 66-65 halftime lead. Russell had 18 points on 8-of-10 shooting and LeVert added 14 points on 6-of-7 shooting.
LOS ANGELES — He's Kevin Durant, and the Los Angeles Clippers got reminded of it.Durant scored 38 points, Stephen Curry added 21 playing with five fouls, and the Golden State Warriors dominated from the opening tip to win 132-105 Thursday night and take a 2-1 lead in their first-round playoff series."He came out super-aggressive, in kill mode," teammate Draymond Green said of Durant. "That was all the difference for us. We took control of the game right there in the first quarter and never lost control of it."The Warriors began the game on a 22-9 tear and went on to shoot 73% from the floor in the first, taking the crowd out of it early.Durant was perfect, making all five of his field goals and both free throws for 12 points. He and Curry picked up two fouls each, but the Warriors still built a 19-point lead."As much momentum as we lost in the final 16 minutes of Game 2, we got it all back early," Curry said. "Everybody was aggressive, decisive, getting good shots on every possession. The way we went about our business was the sign of a resilient team."Game 4 is Sunday at Staples Center.Kevon Looney, again filling in for injured DeMarcus Cousins, shot 4 for 4 in the first, dunking three times in a row.Durant had 27 points at halftime despite not making a 3-pointer.Golden State coach Steve Kerr had said he wanted Durant shooting much more than the eight times he did in Game 2. When relayed his coach's comment earlier in the week, Durant replied, "I don't play like that. I'm Kevin Durant. You know who I am."The Clippers won Game 2 on the road after trailing by 31 points in the third quarter, stunning the Warriors with the largest comeback in NBA playoff history.But they couldn't find the basket this time, shooting 37% from the floor."They dissected us," Clippers coach Doc Rivers said. "You kind of felt they were going to come in and throw a punch, and we just didn't respond."The Clippers' only starter in double figures was rookie Ivica Zubac, who finished with 18 points after playing most of the fourth. Patrick Beverley, a defensive pest guarding Durant in Game 2, was limited to six points, four fouls, one rebound and no assists in 18 minutes.Lou Williams had 16 points, and Montrezl Harrell and JaMychal Green added 15 each off the bench.
Zion Williamson's freshman season at Duke didn't end with a national championship, but he's won just about everything else he's been up for.The likely No. 1 overall pick in June's NBA draft on Friday added to his postseason hardware haul with the John R. Wooden Award, given to the nation's top player.The honor comes on the heels of Williams winning the AP and Naismith player of the year awards. He also earned first-team All-America honors from numerous outlets.Williamson, 18, is the third freshman to win the Wooden Award, joining Kevin Durant (Texas, 2007) and Anthony Davis (Kentucky, 2012).Williamson averaged 22.6 points and 8.9 rebounds per game with the Blue Devils, throwing down highlight-reel dunks seemingly every game, many of them ending up as viral sensations.The Blue Devils went 32-6 this past season but lost to Michigan State in the regional final round of the NCAA Tournament.During the awards show on ESPN on Friday night, Williamson drew laughter from the crowd when he replied, "Umm, who knows" when asked if he would join fellow Duke freshmen RJ Barrett and Cam Reddish in declaring for the draft.Also during Friday's show, the national position player of the year awards were announced:--Bob Cousy Award (point guard): Ja Morant, Murray State--Jerry West Award (best shooting guard): Barrett--Julius Erving Award (small forward): Rui Hachimura, Gonzaga--Karl Malone Award (power forward): Williamson--Kareem Abdul-Jabbar Award (center): Ethan Happ, WisconsinOn the women's side, Oregon junior Sabrina Ionescu picked up the Wooden Award.--Field Level Media
Opening day of the NBA postseason was no time to be home.Not home for the summer. Home for a game.Only the Golden State Warriors managed to win there Saturday in a rough day for the higher seeds. Both No. 2s lost, and the Brooklyn Nets won the game and the crowd in Philadelphia, where home fans turned on the third-seeded 76ers during an ugly performance.The 76ers will try to straighten things out when they host Game 2 on Monday, and the Warriors will try for more smooth sailing against the Clippers at Oracle Arena in the only other game scheduled.The Nets got the surprises started right from the very first game of the postseason when they beat the 76ers 111-102. Things couldn't have gone much worse for the Sixers, who couldn't quiet Brooklyn's guards or their own fans. The booing started early and grew stronger as the game went on, with Philadelphia All-Star Ben Simmons critical of the fans after being held to nine points while counterpart D'Angelo Russell had 26."We know that Game 2 will definitely be a lot harder for us," Nets guard Caris LeVert said. "We're ready for the challenge."Toronto was edged by Orlando, and Denver went down to San Antonio. But the Warriors made sure their home-court advantage didn't go to waste by beating the Clippers 121-104, getting their offense rolling early and keeping it going."Every game is different too," Stephen Curry said, "so who knows what will happen Game 2 and beyond."___Nets at 76ers, Brooklyn leads 1-0. Game 2, 8 p.m. EDT, TNT.NEED TO KNOW: The Nets will be trying for their first 2-0 lead in a series since going up 2-0 against the New York Knicks en route to a first-round sweep in 2004.KEEP AN EYE ON: The benches. Philadelphia may have one of the best starting fives in the NBA, but there's going to be an awful lot of pressure on the starters if the bench gets blown out as badly as in Game 1, when the Nets' reserves had a 59-28 scoring advantage.INJURY UPDATE: Joel Embiid is listed as questionable after he was doubtful on the eve of Game 1 with his sore knee. Nets veterans Ed Davis (sprained right ankle) and Jared Dudley (tight right calf) are being listed as questionable, though Davis said he expected to play after finishing with 12 points and 16 rebounds in the opener.PRESSURE IS ON: Simmons. Maybe he doesn't need to outplay high school teammate Russell, but the 76ers probably can't afford for LeVert (23 points) and Spencer Dinwiddie (18) to outplay him, too.___
DENVER — DeMar DeRozan scored 18 points and Derrick White had a key steal in the closing seconds in the San Antonio Spurs' 101-96 victory over the Denver Nuggets on Saturday night in Game 1 of their playoff series.White stole the ball at midcourt from Jamal Murray with 1.3 seconds left after LaMarcus Aldridge sank a pair of free throws following his key defensive rebound of Murray's errant shot that would have given the Nuggets a 98-97 lead with seven seconds left.Game 2 is Tuesday night in Denver, where the second-seeded Nuggets failed to parlay the NBA's best home-court record (34-7) into a win against the seventh-seeded but much more seasoned Spurs.San Antonio is making its 22nd straight playoff appearance, this one with a new cast that includes DeRozan, who came over from Toronto in the Kawhi Leonard trade.The Spurs' win marked the third by a road team on the opening day of the NBA playoffs. They joined the Nets, who won at Philadelphia, and Magic, who won at Toronto.The Nuggets, making their first playoff appearance in six years, trailed most of the night. Their last lead came with four minutes left in the first quarter but they trimmed a 12-point deficit to one in the closing minutes.They had the ball with 13 seconds left trailing 97-96 but Murray's shot was off — as it was all night — and Aldridge, who shot just 6 of 19 himself, corralled the rebound, then sank two free throws to make it 99-96 with 6.9 seconds remaining.The Nuggets were hoping for a game-tying 3 although they were just 6 of 28 from long range.They never got the chance, though, as White, a second-year pro who moved into a bigger role when Dejounte Murray got hurt in the preseason, stripped Murray and drew the foul, then sank both shots."He was spectacular," Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said. "For somebody who got put in that position and to learn that position with a bunch of new players, it's really remarkable what he's done. Hopefully, he'll continue to play that way because it's going to be a long series."Denver All-Star Nikola Jokic posted the fourth triple-double in Nuggets playoff history, with 10 points, 14 assists and 14 rebounds. But he was hesitant on offense all night, taking just nine shots and making four of them.Throttled by Aldridge, Jokic passed up opportunity after opportunity and shot an airball on a 3-pointer at a crucial moment in the second half that helped San Antonio hold off Denver's surge.)Popovich said it was a wash because Aldridge, who was 6-for-19 for 15 points, really didn't get going, either."We didn't let Jokic play as he wanted and they didn't let LaMarcus play as much as he wanted," Popovich said.White added 16 points for San Antonio and Aldridge and Bryn Forbes each had 15. Reserve Rudy Gay scored 14.
(Reuters) - Andrew Bogut will start at center for the two-time defending champion Golden State Warriors after DeMarcus Cousins tore his quad in the team's loss to the Los Angeles Clippers on Monday, head coach Steve Kerr said on Wednesday. The towering Australian, who won a championship with Golden State in 2015, rejoined the team as a backup to Cousins in March after a standout season with the Sydney Kings in Australia's National Basketball League (NBL). "I think Bogut will do a great job. He's been great since he's been back," Kerr told reporters during practice ahead of Thursday's Game Three, which comes after the teams split the first two games of the best-of-seven series."This is why we got him -- just in case. We were hoping we wouldn't have any injuries obviously but that was our most vulnerable position," he said."We're lucky to have Andrew." Last month Bogut, 34, said he was happy to just be along for the ride and would be fine just waving a towel and cheering his team mates from the bench. He will, however, see a lot more action than that now that Cousins is sidelined.Kerr could have started 23-year-old big man Kevon Looney or forward Draymond Green at center but said he was confident in Bogut's abilities. Cousins will not need surgery, according to media reports, to repair the left quad muscle, which he tore while running down a lose ball in the first half of the Warriors 135-131 loss to the Clippers in Oakland.Cousins, who in January made his Warriors debut after a torn Achilles tendon kept him off the court for almost a year, is unlikely to return during the playoffs, where Golden State is chasing a fourth NBA championship in five seasons. (Reporting by Rory Carroll; Editing by Toby Davis)
MEMPHIS, Tenn. — The Memphis Grizzlies started the offseason Thursday with plenty of questions to answer, then controlling owner Robert Pera added to the to-do list by firing coach J.B. Bickerstaff as part of a front-office shake-up that demoted general manager Chris Wallace to scout.The Grizzlies announced the moves after both Bickerstaff and Wallace spoke to reporters following a second straight season outside the playoffs. After a 12-5 start, Memphis plummeted and finished 33-49, tied with New Orleans and Dallas.Wallace had said earlier that Bickerstaff would be returning after doing a "terrific job." But Pera didn't agree and restructured the front office a few hours later."In order to put our team on the path to sustainable success, it was necessary to change our approach to basketball operations," Pera said in a statement. "I look forward to a re-energized front office and fresh approach to Memphis Grizzlies basketball under new leadership, while retaining the identity and values that have distinguished our team."Bickerstaff was named interim coach in November 2017 after the Grizzlies fired David Fizdale . He was given the job without the interim title last May. Now Memphis is looking for a fourth head coach since choosing not to renew Lionel Hollins' contract after he led the Grizzlies to their lone Western Conference final appearance in 2013.The Grizzlies also announced that Jason Wexler will be president of the Grizzlies overseeing both basketball and business operations, and Zachary Z. Kleiman replaces John Hollinger as executive vice president of basketball operations with Hollinger moving to an advisory role. The Grizzlies are keeping former player Tayshaun Prince as a special adviser."No words," Grizzlies veteran point guard Mike Conley wrote on Twitter.Memphis began this season with Wallace predicting the Grizzlies would be a playoff team.The Grizzlies wound up trading away center Marc Gasol at the trade deadline. With other trades and injuries that left nine rotation players benched with injuries for Wednesday night's season finale in a 132-117 win over Golden State, Memphis tied its own NBA record for most players used in one season — set last season — again at 28.Memphis also set the NBA mark with 20 different leading scorers, topping the old record of 16 set by the Knicks in 2014-15.While Memphis kept Conley after a frenzy of speculation about his future before the trade deadline, that chatter is about to start again. And Conley, 31, sounds ready to consider his best interest about what happens next with Memphis in full-blown rebuilding mode."I honestly don't think that would be the ideal situation," Conley said. "Ideally, I don't think anybody in my situation would want to go through that again, (since) I don't know how many years I have left."Conley helped his potential value by averaging 24 points and 6.5 assists over his final 16 games. Conley still has two seasons left on the max deal he signed in July 2016,."I'm pretty much getting ready for it, getting ready for that storm ...," Conley said of the coming speculation. "In the last few weeks, it's become more and more like knocking on the door. It's right around the corner. This stuff is going to fire up again. Rumors, all that stuff is going to pop up."Wallace oversaw the signing of Chandler Parsons to a four-year, $94 million deal that has seen the forward play 95 games combined over the first three seasons.

(Reuters) - Chris Woakes believes it would be unfair for England selectors to ask any player to make way for the uncapped all-rounder Jofra Archer in the World Cup squad.Barbados-born Archer, who shone for Sussex last season and in Australia's Big Bash Twenty20 league for Hobart Hurricanes, is eligible for national selection under new England & Wales Cricket Board (ECB) residency rules.Archer's ability to bowl at over 90 miles per hour and his lower-order power-hitting skills have earned him a number of high-profile admirers including England regulars Ben Stokes and Jos Buttler.Some are concerned about who would be left out if he were to join the England squad, however."If he was to come in and someone was to miss out, it would be extremely unfortunate," all-rounder Woakes told BBC Sport."We've been a tight-knit group for the last two to three years, played some really strong cricket, won a lot of series."Apart from a personal level, I wouldn't want to see any of my mates and team-mates miss out. But it's the nature of international cricket that there is always someone knocking on the door."England will name a provisional 15-man squad for the World Cup on Wednesday, alongside an expanded group of 17 for limited-overs series against Ireland and Pakistan next month.Even if Archer is not included in the initial squad, England can make changes to it until May 23, seven days before their tournament opener against South Africa at The Oval.Asked if there would be added pressure on Archer if called up, Woakes said: "He might thrive off it or it might have the opposite effect."But from what everyone is hearing he might be part of the Ireland and Pakistan matches so there will be pressure on everyone to perform."Everyone will be looking over their shoulder and that's a good place to be as a team because it constantly makes you want to improve and make sure you are a part of that 15." (Reporting by Hardik Vyas in Bengaluru; Editing by Hugh Lawson)
CAPE TOWN — South Africa have included off-form opening batsman Hashim Amla in their squad for the Cricket World Cup in England and Wales starting next month, but there is no place for all-rounder Chris Morris.Amla’s selection has been the topic of hot debate. He has been a stalwart at the top of the order for the last decade, but his form in all formats has been called into question in the past year.In One-Day International cricket he has managed a single century in his previous 16 innings, dating back to the start of 2018, at an average of 35.26. He was given the opportunity to find form in domestic cricket over the last few weeks, but has a top-score of 32 in six innings, failing to reach double-figures in three of those."We are very happy with the squad we have been able to put together and have every confidence in their ability to do our country proud at the World Cup," Cricket South Africa selection convener Linda Zondi said."The fact that we have managed to win our last five series in a row in this format underlines the quality of the team that Faf will lead into the contest. "The final selection is also the result of a very rigorous search we have conducted, leaving no stone unturned, to make sure that we have made the best use of the options available to us."Morris's exclusion as an all-rounder is a surprise given his form in the Indian Premier League and his death-bowling ability, but the selectors have instead opted for Dwaine Pretorius and Andile Phehlukwayo, with only one of those ever likely to play at any given time. Fast bowlers Lungi Ngidi and Anrich Nortje were both injury doubts, but have been selected, with the former especially crucial to the side given his wicket-taking ability and economy in the opening overs."Lungi Ngidi and Anrich Nortje are well on the way to recovery and we expect them to be ready for our pre-tournament camp next month," Zondi added.Rassie van der Dussen, who only made his debut for the side in January but averages 88.25 from his eight ODI innings, was chosen ahead of Reeza Hendricks, while test opener Aiden Markram also gets the nod on the back of some excellent domestic form.EXPERIENCED TRIOFaf du Plessis will captain the side, with experienced batsman JP Duminy and fast bowler Dale Steyn also included.Imran Tahir will be the starting leg-spinner, with the guile of Tabraiz Shamsi another option in that department.South Africa have opted not to select a specialist wicketkeeper as back-up to Quinton de Kock, but instead will rely on part-timer David Miller, who wore the gloves for some of the recent 5-0 series sweep of Sri Lanka. 
(Reuters) - England have not picked uncapped all-rounder Jofra Archer in a preliminary 15-man World Cup squad but have named him in squads for the warm-up games against Pakistan and Ireland.Barbados-born Archer, who shone for Sussex last season and in Australia's Big Bash Twenty20 competition for Hobart Hurricanes, is eligible for national selection under new England and Wales Cricket Board residency rules.The 24-year-old could get a World Cup call-up if he impresses in the warm-up games as changes can be made to the squad until May 23, seven days before their tournament opener against South Africa at The Oval.Joe Denly, whose last ODI appearance came in October 2009, retained his place in the World Cup group as a backup spinning all-rounder.Although he could be among the pool of players, including Liam Plunkett and Tom Curran, who will feel the pressure if Archer performs well over the next few weeks.Archer's ability to bowl at more than 90 miles per hour and his lower-order power-hitting skills have earned him a number of high-profile admirers, including England regulars Ben Stokes and Jos Buttler. "The selection panel has been impressed with Jofra Archer's performances in domestic and franchise cricket. He is a very talented and exciting cricketer," national selector Ed Smith said.England play Ireland in a one-dayer on May 3 before a five-match ODI series and a Twenty20 against Pakistan."In line with ICC (International Cricket Council regulations, we have to name a preliminary squad of 15 for the ICC Men's Cricket World Cup before April 23," Smith added."However, all 17 players named in the ODIs against Pakistan can stake a claim to be in the final 15-man squad, finalised at the end of that series."Fast bowler Chris Jordan, Archer's Sussex team mate, could also make a comeback to the ODI setup against Pakistan, despite playing his last 50-overs game for England in September 2016."Chris Jordan, a regular in IT20 squads over the past few years, has continued to develop as a cricketer -- as we saw in the IT20s in the West Indies. He fully deserves his return to the ODI squad," Smith said. "With regard to resting players, we are conscious of managing player workloads leading into such an important summer so that players are in the best possible condition for the World Cup. That was also a factor in the way we have selected these three squads." England's World Cup squad: Eoin Morgan (captain), Moeen Ali, Jonny Bairstow, Jos Buttler (wicketkeeper), Tom Curran, Joe Denly, Alex Hales, Liam Plunkett, Adil Rashid, Joe Root, Jason Roy, Ben Stokes, David Willey, Chris Woakes, Mark Wood.England squad for Pakistan ODI series: Eoin Morgan, Moeen Ali, Jofra Archer, Jonny Bairstow, Jos Buttler, Tom Curran, Joe Denly, Chris Jordan, Alex Hales, Liam Plunkett, Adil Rashid, Joe Root, Jason Roy, Ben Stokes, David Willey, Chris Woakes, Mark Wood.
MELBOURNE — The return of Steve Smith and David Warner to Australia's squad for the Cricket World Cup came as little surprise on Monday but selectors still managed to cause a stir by omitting strike bowler Josh Hazlewood and in-form batsman Peter Handscomb.Former skipper Smith and Warner were eligible for Aaron Finch's side after their 12-month ball-tampering bans ended last month but their return put a squeeze on the batting positions that saw Handscomb drop out."Steve Smith and David Warner come back into the squad. Both are world class players and it has been pleasing to see them produce some good form in the IPL (Indian Premier League)," Chairman of Selectors Trevor Hohns said in a Cricket Australia statement.Warner has registered five 50-plus scores, including an unbeaten century, for Sunrisers Hyderabad in seven IPL matches this season while Smith, returning from an elbow surgery like his former deputy, has also looked in good touch for Rajasthan Royals.Spinners Nathan Lyon and Adam Zampa have made the cut, with selectors going for the pace of Pat Cummins, Mitchell Starc, Nathan Coulter-Nile, Jhye Richardson and Jason Behrendorff, who has been in fine form in the IPL.Hohns said Hazlewood, who has instead been named in the Australia A team for their tour of England in June-July, remained a big part of Australia's Ashes plans.The quick, who has taken 72 wickets in 44 one-dayers, has been sidelined since January due to a back injury but had been confident of being fit for the World Cup."Having not played at the highest level for some time, we feel this will provide him with the best preparation to get some quality cricket under his belt," Hohns said."Our focus is to have Josh back bowling at his best for the commencement of a big Ashes tour."Starc and Richardson have both been selected subject to fitness."The advice from the CA medical team is they are progressing well and barring any setbacks will be available for selection ahead of our opening match against Afghanistan on June 1," Hohns said.Teams have to submit their 15-member squads by April 23 but injury replacements can be named until May 23.Opener Usman Khawaja, player-of-the-series in Australia's ODI series victory in India last month, was picked but may have to bat lower with Warner likely to partner Finch at the top.Handscomb was left out despite his good form and the value he adds as a back-up stumper. Alex Carey has been named the sole wicketkeeper in the squad, which also contains all-rounders Marcus Stoinis and Glenn Maxwell.The tournament, being hosted in England and Wales, runs from May 30 to July 14.
(Reuters) - England's Ben Stokes believes fellow all-rounder Jofra Archer has a strong chance of being included in their World Cup squad, saying the "naturally gifted" player could improve any team in world cricket.Barbados-born Archer, who shone for Sussex last season and in Australia's Big Bash Twenty20 league for Hobart Hurricanes, is eligible for national selection under new England & Wales Cricket Board (ECB) residency rules.The uncapped 24-year-old has played 28 first-class games and has a number of high-profile admirers, including former players Nasser Hussain and Devon Malcolm."Jofra makes any team better," Stokes told The Doosra podcast on BBC Radio 5 Live."He is the most naturally gifted bowler I've seen and I don't think he quite realises how good he is. Some of the things he can do at the click of a finger are just 'wow'. It's pretty special to watch."To have someone at the pace he bowls and the skills he has... the selectors are going to be scratching their heads... it's a great position to be in as an England team when you've got a player with the skill level Jofra's got."Archer and Stokes are team mates at Rajasthan Royals in the Indian Premier League.In February, England coach Trevor Bayliss said a decision over Archer was the "final piece of the jigsaw" in their World Cup plans.Hosts England, who are set to name their provisional squad next week, begin their World Cup campaign against South Africa at The Oval on May 30. (Reporting by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru; editing by Clare Fallon)
(Reuters) - Steve Smith and David Warner were named in Australia's squad for the World Cup on Monday but there was no place for strike bowler Josh Hazlewood, with selectors saying he needs to work himself back to full fitness after a back injury.Former skipper Smith and Warner were eligible for Aaron Finch's national side after their 12-month suspensions for ball-tampering ended last month but their return put a squeeze on the batting positions that saw Peter Handscomb drop out.Alex Carey has been named the sole wicketkeeper in the squad.Spinners Nathan Lyon and Adam Zampa have made the cut, with selectors going for the pace of Pat Cummins, Mitchell Starc, Nathan Coulter-Nile, Jhye Richardson and Jason Behrendorff, who has been in fine form in the Indian Premier League (IPL).Chairman of Selectors Trevor Hohns said that while Hazlewood would miss out on the World Cup he would be a big part of Australia's plans for the Ashes.The quick, who has taken 72 wickets in 44 one-dayers, has been sidelined since January due to a back injury but had been confident of being fit for the World Cup."Having not played at the highest level for some time, we feel this will provide him with the best preparation to get some quality cricket under his belt," Hohns said in a Cricket Australia media release."Our focus is to have Josh back bowling at his best for the commencement of a big Ashes Tour."He added that there had been some tough calls to make given the depth of talent available, but was happy to see Smith and Warner return to the international fold."Both are world class players and it has been pleasing to see them produce some good form in the IPL," he said.Australia begin their World Cup campaign against Afghanistan on June 1.Squad: Aaron Finch (captain), Usman Khawaja, David Warner, Steve Smith, Shaun Marsh, Glenn Maxwell, Marcus Stoinis, Alex Carey, Pat Cummins, Mitchell Starc, Jhye Richardson, Nathan Coulter-Nile, Jason Behrendorff, Nathan Lyon, Adam Zampa. (Reporting by Peter Rutherford, Editing by Simon Jennings)
DHAKA — Rookie swing bowler Abu Jayed is pleasantly surprised by his selection in Bangladesh's 15-member World Cup squad despite being an uncapped one-day player but now faces the challenge of making the playing XI in England and Wales.Right-arm paceman Jayed, who has played five tests and three Twenty20 matches but has yet to debut in one-day internationals, was picked for his ability to swing the ball as he demonstrated in the two-test series in New Zealand.The 25-year-old has also shown strong form in an ongoing domestic 50-over tournament (DPL) and has taken nine wickets in his last five matches to strengthen his claim for a place in the World Cup squad."I played well in two matches of DPL recently and I felt I could have been in the 20-member preliminary squad," he was quoted as saying on International Cricket Council website."So, I was surprised when I heard that I am in the 15-member squad. It's nice to be picked, but now the challenge is to make a place in the playing XI and repay the faith shown by the team management."Jayed's selection came at the expense of fellow paceman Taskin Ahmed, who missed the Zealand tour with an ankle injury.Jayed has taken 11 wickets in the five test matches he has played and was impressive in his last match against New Zealand at Wellington, where he took three for 94.Jayed would now need to replicate his test success with the white ball in England."I am playing for the last 10 years and during this time, had the opportunity to play a lot of cricket at different levels. So don't think it will be a big problem," he said."I got appreciated for my ability to swing the ball even by some of the leading batsmen in New Zealand, who believed that if I can work on it I have a good chance of turning into a good bowler. "Recently Mashrafe (captain Mortaza) told me that he is also optimistic about my ability to swing the ball."Bangladesh begin their campaign against South Africa at the Oval in London on June 2. (Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly in Mumbai; editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
(Reuters) - West Indies appointed Floyd Reifer as their new interim head coach on Thursday, replacing Richard Pybus as part of a series of administrative changes less than two months before the World Cup.Pybus's contract ran beyond the World Cup in England and Wales, but new Cricket West Indies (CWI) president Ricky Skerritt said changes were necessary and a "calculated strategic move" to reignite the passion for cricket in the region.Barbados-born Reifer played six tests, eight one-day internationals and one Twenty20 for West Indies between 1997 and 2009 before moving into coaching. "Up to the end of 2018 Floyd Reifer had been identified as the outstanding emerging local coach," Skerritt told a news conference in Antigua. "He displayed this by leading the West Indies A team successfully, including victories against the England Lions, and ended the past year by coaching the Senior men's team to a T20 series win in Bangladesh."England's Pybus replaced Australian Stuart Law in January. He guided the team to a test series win over England, while the ODI series against the top-ranked side ended 2-2.Among other changes, Skerritt overhauled the selection panel, with Robert Haynes replacing Courtney Browne as interim head of selectors."We have found it necessary to immediately adjust our selection policy to become more open, inclusive, and player-centric," he said. "I am therefore pleased to confirm that we have terminated the old embedded selection policy which secretly, but actively, victimised some players and banished them from selection consideration."As part of the old selection policy, availability for domestic tournaments was a requirement to be picked for West Indies squads, but Skerritt said selectors would be allowed to pick all players who make themselves available. Contractual disputes between players and CWI have weakened the team for several years, but Thursday's announcement could pave the way for players such as Keiron Pollard to return to the ODI fold for the first time since 2016."Participating in a World Cup is a career defining experience for West Indian players and coaching staff," Skerritt said. "We therefore believe it is strategically more beneficial for a West Indian coach with the proven skill sets to have this exposure at CWI's expense - rather than a foreign coach."Twice winners West Indies open their World Cup campaign against Pakistan in Nottingham on May 31. (Reporting by Hardik Vyas and Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru; Editing by Toby Davis)
NEW DELHI — Former captain Steve Smith laid to rest any concerns about his fitness and form ahead of the naming of Australia's World Cup squad with his first half century of this year's Indian Premier League on Sunday.The 29-year-old Smith, who underwent elbow surgery earlier this year, top-scored with 73 not out for Rajasthan Royals in their relatively meagre total of 139 for three in Jaipur.Smith's innings lasted just 59 balls but he was relatively circumspect at the start against some tight bowling from spinners Piyush Chawla and Sunil Narine. West Indies all-rounder Narine (47) then combined with Australia's Chris Lynn (50) in a 91-run opening partnership in 8.1 overs to set up an eight-wicket victory with 37 balls to spare. Despite the loss, Smith's innings would have pleased Australia's selectors as they mull over their squad for the defence of the one-day World Cup in England and Wales.Instead of a traditional all-out attacking innings normal in the Twenty20 format, Smith worked the ball into gaps and had scored just 39 runs from his first 40 balls before he accelerated in the final overs.The innings drew some praise from West Indies batting great Brian Lara during the commentary of the match."He is not a big-hitter of the ball," Lara said. "He's not an Andre Russell or a Ben Stokes. He gets the gaps. I respect him."Former England captain Michael Vaughan also tweeted that a six by Smith off Narine would put to bed any concerns over the elbow.Smith's 12-month international ban for ball tampering only ended 10 days ago and he has started slowly with scores of 20, 28 and 38 in his three matches before Sunday's innings.He had been playing mostly Twenty20 tournaments around the world during the ban. He also played club cricket in Sydney before having the surgery.Both Smith and former Australia vice-captain David Warner missed last year's IPL following the imposition of the bans by Cricket Australia for their roles in the ball-tampering scandal that rocked their national team.Australia are expected to name their team for the defence of their World Cup title over the next week, with the 15-man squads needing to be finalised by April 23.India captain Virat Kohli's miserable IPL season continued on Sunday when his Royal Challengers Bangalore lost to the Delhi Capitals by four wickets, their sixth defeat in six matches this season.  (Reporting by Greg Stutchbury in Wellington; Editing by Nick Mulvenney)
LONDON — England batsman Alex Hales, who was named in their provisional squad for the Cricket World Cup, has taken an indefinite break from the game due to personal reasons, his club Nottinghamshire have said."Alex Hales has made himself unavailable for selection for personal reasons and no timetable has been set for his return to action," Nottinghamshire said in a statement on their website.Hales missed Nottinghamshire's 50-over match against Lancashire on Friday.It is unclear whether the 30-year-old opening batsman, who has played 70 ODIs, will be available for England's one-dayer against Ireland on May 3 or a five-match ODI series and Twenty20 international against Pakistan.Those matches will be England's final internationals before they begin their campaign to win their maiden 50-over World Cup during the May 30-July 14 tournament on home soil. (Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly in Mumbai; editing by Peter Rutherford)
COLOMBO — Former Sri Lanka captains Dinesh Chandimal and Upul Tharanga were left out of the 15-man squad announced on Thursday for the World Cup in England and Wales, while spin-bowling all-rounders Milinda Siriwardana and Jeevan Mendis were recalled.Chandimal was Sri Lanka's one-day international captain as recently as October, while Tharanga led the side in 2017.Tharanga's fellow opener Danushka Gunathilaka also failed to make the cut, while Lahiru Thirimanne, who last played in the format at the end of 2017, was drafted in."We have an issue with opening batsmen. This is the reason why we went for experienced openers. We need that experience in England," chief selector Ashantha de Mel told reporters."The openers were not in form. They were not among the runs in the last 10 games and they had failed. So we had to take a decision on the openers."Jeffrey Vandersay was picked over mystery spinner Akila Dananjaya as the only specialist slow bowler, with Sri Lanka's selectors rewarding the leg-spinner's strong performances in a recent domestic 50-over tournament."We can't take two offspinners to the World Cup, and right now we are considering Dhananjaya de Silva as an offspinner," de Mel said."Since Akila remodelled his action, Dhananjaya gets wickets at a much better strike rate than Akila, and he also turns the ball more than Akila."Opening batsman Avishka Fernando, 21, survived the axe despite a below-par tour of South Africa recently. But regular wicketkeeper-batsman Niroshan Dickwella was dropped.The 1996 champions on Wednesday had appointed test captain Dimuth Karunaratne as the skipper for the May 30-July 14 World Cup despite the left-handed batsman not playing an ODI since the 2015 tournament.Karunaratne's leadership in Sri Lanka's spectacular test series win in South Africa tilted the scales in his favour.The selectors continued on that note by bringing back Jeevan Mendis, who also last played in the format at the World Cup four years back in Australia and New Zealand. Siriwardana and Vandersay last played ODIs in October 2017.Pace bowler Lasith Malinga, who led the side in a 5-0 ODI series thrashing at the hands of South Africa recently, kept his place alongside the injury-prone paceman Nuwan Pradeep."We have tested him (Malinga). He is a world class player," Sri Lanka Cricket President Shammi Silva said."But sometimes, a world class player may not be a good captain, and a good captain may not be a world class player. Country comes first, not the names."
MUMBAI — West Indies are replete with match-winners but consistency will be key to their success in English conditions at this year's World Cup, batting great Brian Lara has said.Teeming with tearaway fast bowlers and aggressive batsmen, West Indies were once considered invincible and won the opening two editions of the World Cup in 1975 and 1979.Their glory days, however, are long over and the twice winners had to go through a qualifying tournament to book their spot in the 10-team tournament in England and Wales.The last bilateral series win for West Indies, who are ranked ninth in one-day internationals, came in 2014 but they showed signs of improvement against England.Jason Holder's men drew a five-match ODI series against top-ranked England 2-2 at home recently, in a timely boost before the May 30-July 14 showpiece event.The likes of opening batsman Chris Gayle, all-rounder Andre Russell and spinner Sunil Narine are also much in demand in Twenty20 leagues across the globe."Look at the Indian Premier League, look at the leagues around the world, we have got players that are the most wanted in the world," Lara, 49, told reporters in Mumbai at a promotional event last week."We have got match-winners, but we are going to need a little more than match-winners in English conditions to win the World Cup. We need a team that can create consistency."If we can get to the knock-out stages, we can knock out any team. We have seen that in the past. But consistency is going to take us right through to the finals."Former West Indies captain Lara, considered one of the very best the Caribbean islands have ever produced, retired after the 2007 World Cup at home with over 10,000 runs in ODIs. He also scored close to 12,000 runs in tests.Lara credited franchise leagues like the IPL for creating interest among kids in the West Indies and giving young players a platform to showcase their talent before they graduate to international cricket.West Indies suffered 2-0 losses both in India and Bangladesh late last year but staged a spectacular turnaround in a 2-1 series win against England earlier this year.The test success augurs well for the side, who are now graduating to a level where they can be competitive against top sides at least at home, said Lara."We had a tremendous series against England. We are laying the foundation, the confidence is there," Lara added. "India may have to worry when they come there in July to play against the West Indies because they have a team now that understand the conditions, spirits are high, let's see what we can do against India.
(Reuters) - West Indies batsman Chris Gayle warmed up for the World Cup with an unbeaten 99 although he could not prevent his Kings XI Punjab team from losing by eight wickets to Royal Challengers Bangalore in the Indian Premier League on Saturday.The powerful left-hander, who fell short of what would have been his seventh IPL century, smashed 10 fours and five sixes in a 64-ball knock against his former side to help Kings XI reach a competitive 173 for four in their 20 overs.In response, India skipper Virat Kohli scored 67 while South African batsman AB de Villiers remained unbeaten on 59 as Royal Challengers completed the win in the final over for their first victory of the season.Gayle, who returned to the West Indies ODI side for the recent series against England, is set to retire from one-day international cricket after taking part in the World Cup in England and Wales starting on May 30.Twice winners West Indies, who appointed Floyd Reifer as their new interim head coach and also overhauled their selection panel on Thursday, open their World Cup campaign against Pakistan in Nottingham on May 31. (Reporting by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru, editing by Pritha Sarkar)
(Reuters) - West Indies have brought on board former top order batsman Ramnaresh Sarwan to help prepare their players for the 50-over World Cup in England and Wales.Sarwan, who scored nearly 12,000 international runs across formats, joined the camp in Barbados where West Indies are currently preparing for the tri-nation series with Bangladesh and Ireland in Dublin next month."I've come here to act as kind of a mentor to the players and try my best to assist them in any technical ways and with any shortcomings where I think they can improve," Sarwan said in a Cricket West Indies statement."Our batsmen have struggled... with rotating the strike, so I'm trying to see how best we can get them to improve in this area. It's not an overnight fix, but it's important to share ideas with them, so they have something to build on."West Indies head coach Floyd Reifer said it was important to have a "finisher" like Sarwan working with the batsmen."We're hoping he can help the batsmen get a better understanding of how to finish games -- the mindset, how to approach batting first, how to approach batting last," Reifer said."He fitted in very well. He did a lot of talking and a lot of work with the batsmen."West Indies have also added former Pakistan spinner Mushtaq Ahmed and former fast bowlers Corey Collymore and Roddy Estwick to their coaching staff for the two tournaments.The two-times champions begin their World Cup campaign on May 31 against 1992 winners Pakistan at Trent Bridge in Nottingham. (Reporting by Rohith Nair in Bengaluru; Editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
MUMBAI — Former Australia batsman Steve Smith returned as the captain of the Rajasthan Royals on Saturday and will replace Ajinkya Rahane at the helm for the remainder of the 2019 edition of the Indian Premier League, the franchise said.Rajasthan, the inaugural IPL champions in 2008, have just two wins from eight games this year and are second-to-last on the table and only above Royal Challengers Bangalore in the eight-team league due to a better net run-rate."Rajasthan Royals will be led by the Australian batsman Steven Smith for the upcoming matches of the IPL," the team said in a statement. "Ajinkya Rahane did a fantastic job in leading the team to the playoffs last year, however, the franchisee now thinks a fresh approach is needed to bring their 2019 campaign back on track."Steve has always been part of the leadership team within RR and Rahane will continue to be a key voice in the side, therefore the Royals see this as a small restructuring process to secure the results required to move up the table."The 29-year-old Smith will lead the side later on Saturday when the Royals host the Mumbai Indians in Jaipur.Smith stepped down as captain of the IPL side last year and was later stood down for the entire 2018 tournament following the ball tampering scandal in South Africa, in which both he and David Warner received 12 month bans that expired last month.They have been included in Australia's 15-man squad for the May 30-July 14 World Cup in England and Wales."Steve is one of the most innovative and successful captains in the world, in all formats of the game," Zubin Bharucha, head of cricket for Rajasthan Royals, said."We are confident he can lead the Royals to success."  (Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly; editing by Greg Stutchbury)
LONDON — Australian-born former Worcestershire county cricketer Alex Hepburn was found guilty at a re-trial on Friday of raping a sleeping woman as part of a sex game conducted on WhatsApp.The BBC and Sky television reported the jury delivered a unanimous guilty verdict on a count of oral rape after deliberating for nearly 11 hours. The 23-year-old was cleared of a second rape charge involving the same woman, who had earlier had consensual sex with team mate Joe Clarke, in his Worcester apartment after a night out with friends on April 1, 2017. Hepburn had denied both charges.Sentencing will be at Hereford Crown Court on April 30, with the judge warning that a custodial sentence was inevitable. The earlier trial in January failed to reach a verdict.The court heard Hepburn was part of a WhatsApp group that kept a score of the women its members had slept with as part of a 'conquest game'.Worcestershire chairman Fanos Hira said in a statement on the club website that they were appalled by the details reported.The Professional Cricketers' Association (PCA) said the case provided "a stark reminder to all PCA members of all requirements and behaviours demanded of a professional cricketer." Detective Chief Inspector Ian Wall of West Mercia police welcomed the conviction and said Hepburn had been in "a position of trust and power" at the time of the assault."I hope it will offer some comfort to the victim, who has shown great courage and strength in coming forward in reporting this to us, throughout the investigation and in giving evidence in court," he said.Hepburn was handed a one-year contract extension at Worcestershire on Oct. 12, 2017 but was suspended from playing any form of cricket after he was charged with two counts of rape on Nov. 9 that year. (Reporting by Alan Baldwin, editing by Toby Davis)
(Reuters) - Fast bowler Mohammad Amir was left out of Pakistan's 15-man preliminary World Cup squad but will feature in their warm-up games against England, the country's cricket board (PCB) said on Thursday.Since producing a match-winning three-wicket haul in the 2017 Champions Trophy final, Amir has taken just five one-day international wickets in 101 overs at an average of 92.60 per wicket.The 27-year-old, however, will get a chance to impress the selectors in a limited-overs series against England, which begins with a Twenty20 in Cardiff on May 5.Big-hitting batsman Asif Ali also features in the 17-man group for the England games, with Pakistan having until May 23 to finalise their World Cup squad."Asif is probably the best power-hitter in Pakistan, while Amir has the experience and a good record in England," Inzamam-ul-Haq, former captain and chairman of Pakistan's selection committee, said in a statement. "These two will provide cover to the World Cup squad and can be drafted into the side by May 23, if required."Abid Ali was preferred to Shan Masood as Pakistan's backup opener after the 31-year-old right-hander scored a century on debut against Australia last month.Experienced all-rounder Mohammad Hafeez was also selected in the World Cup group but subject to passing a fitness test ahead of the tournament."Yesterday we got a boost when he started playing with a tennis ball with his doctor confirming he will be available for selection for the series against England," Inzamam added."Our World Cup opener is on May 31 against the Windies, which is still six weeks away, and we are confident he will be fully fit and ready to display his vast international experience."Squad: Sarfaraz Ahmed (wicketkeeper and captain), Abid Ali, Babar Azam, Faheem Ashraf, Fakhar Zaman, Haris Sohail, Hasan Ali, Imad Wasim, Imam-ul-Haq, Junaid Khan, Mohammad Hafeez, Mohammad Hasnain, Shadab Khan, Shaheen Afridi, Shoaib Malik (Reporting by Hardik Vyas in Bengaluru; Editing by Toby Davis)
MUMBAI — Rishabh Pant's exclusion from India's World Cup squad could prove to be a big gain for Delhi Capitals in the ongoing Indian Premier League, the franchise's head coach Ricky Ponting has said.Dinesh Karthik pipped young Pant to the second wicketkeeper's spot in India's World Cup squad, which was announced on Monday.With former captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni the undisputed first-choice wicketkeeper, India's selectors preferred Karthik's experience to the raw aggression of the 21-year-old Pant."I had a quick chat with him (Pant) on Monday night, and he seems to have taken it quite well," Australia's former World Cup-winning captain Ponting told reporters."He is obviously disappointed as he would have loved to be in the squad as a lot of other players would have as well. But the thing with him that he has to remember and we all have to remember is that he is still pretty young. "He will have the opportunity to potentially play in three or four more World Cups over the course of his career."Famed for his swashbuckling batting, Pant impressed in the test series in England and Australia and is perceived as a long-term replacement for Dhoni when the 37-year-old decides to quit limited-overs formats.Ponting advised Pant to take the World Cup snub positively and concentrate on scoring heavily for his IPL franchise."But what might be a negative thing for him to not get picked in the Indian team, might turn out to be a very positive thing for the Delhi Capitals as he can totally focus on playing his best cricket for us," Ponting said. "Like I said a few games ago, he is a match-winner and I’m sure he will come back strongly to win more matches for us. It is important that he focuses on the little things on the field that make him a really good player for us. "There is nothing he can do now to get into that World Cup team, but he can definitely help the Delhi Capitals win some matches in the coming days which will help him boost his confidence for the future as well."Pant's team are currently second in the IPL standings with 10 points from nine matches while champions Chennai Super Kings top the leaderboard with 14 from 10. (Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly; editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
(Reuters) - Jofra Archer did not find a place in England's preliminary World Cup squad but the uncapped all-rounder is determined to impress in the one-day series against Pakistan and break into the final team in case there is an injury in the 15-man side.Archer was omitted from the preliminary World Cup squad on Wednesday but got his maiden England call-up for the warm-up games against Pakistan and Ireland next month. Injury replacements for the showpiece event can be named until May 23.Barbados-born Archer, who is eligible for national selection under new England and Wales Cricket Board residency rules, said he was surprised by his quick elevation."I thought I would have to wait a couple more years before I would be in contention for the full squad, I thought I would have to play for (England) Lions," the all-rounder, currently playing for Rajasthan Royals in the Indian Premier League, told reporters."I was fully prepared in my mind that it was going to be a seven-year job. When I found out I was qualified more quickly it was obviously a bit of a shock but also exciting."While the 24-year-old has admirers in England regulars Ben Stokes and Jos Buttler, Chris Woakes said it would be unfair for England selectors to ask any player to make way for the uncapped Archer."I understand the situation and I'm very happy with everything. I don't want to step on anyone's toes," said Archer, whose ability to bowl at more than 90 miles per hour and power-hitting make him a limited-overs asset."I'm not in the World Cup squad but it's a great chance for me to show what I can do and anything can happen. If someone gets injured, I want to put myself in a position where I'm the first person they turn to."I'm going to give it my best shot. I've worked pretty much all my life for this moment and I just want to tackle it and put my best foot forward."Even if he is not eventually picked in the final World Cup squad, the 24-year-old said it was not going to be the end of the world."Of course I want to play in the World Cup, but if it doesn't happen for me I'm not going to get upset."England play Ireland in a one-day international on May 3 before a five-match ODI series and a Twenty20 against Pakistan. The World Cup begins on May 30. (Reporting by Rohith Nair in Bengaluru; Editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
NEW DELHI — Rishabh Pant must learn the virtue of patience to transform himself from an exciting match-winner to a crucial 'finisher' for India, according to former captain Krishnamachari Srikkanth.Famed for his swashbuckling batting, Pant is expected to be the second wicketkeeper in India's World Cup squad, behind Mahendra Singh Dhoni, after impressing across all three formats.Pant smashed a blistering 78 not out of 27 balls in an Indian Premier League match against Mumbai Indians last month but the former aggressive opener advised the Delhi Capitals player to shun risks early in his knock."I firmly believe that he is one cricketer in India who could win his side - be it Delhi Capitals or Indian teams - games from hopeless situations," Srikkanth wrote in a column in Friday's Times of India newspaper."This kid has it in him but from my observation I feel that he doesn't give himself enough time to showcase his talent in the middle.""He goes too hard right at the start. He needs to play in the 'V' the first few balls, irrespective of the format, maybe push the ball towards long-on or long-off frequently and get his eyes in."He has great ability and a range of shots to make it up in the end," added Srikkanth, a member of India's triumphant 1983 World Cup team.Delhi head coach Ricky Ponting also believes Pant needed to be patient to be able to inflict maximum damage on rivals in the final overs."With Rishabh in white-ball cricket, the issue is that he's such a competitor that sometimes that gets the better of him," Ponting said ahead of Friday's match with Kolkata Knight Riders."He wants to get things done quickly in the white-ball game. In the tests he doesn't so much because there's not as much scoring pressure in tests."Ponting, however, would not ask the 21-year-old to change the way he bats."I'm not going to curb the way he plays, I'm not gonna tell him to slow down because if he plays his best he will win games for us," Ponting said."I want him to go out with pure freedom and with no other thought other than hitting the ball for a six. We saw in Mumbai, when it comes off, we're going to win." (Reporting by Amlan Chakraborty in New Delhi; editing by Greg Stutchbury)
Welcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.There’s a lot going on in Washington and the world this week, but there’s also still a lot of buzz around the Green New Deal, a proposal put forth by Democrats that would reshape the American energy sector to tackle climate change and create jobs.Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican majority leader, has said he’ll bring the proposal to a vote in the coming months, a move that could force Democratic senators who are running for president to choose sides.Young people who follow the Sunrise Movement, an environmental group, have protested at government offices in recent days to demand that lawmakers vote in favor of the proposal. About 40 young people, some holding a sign saying “Mitch, look us in the eyes,” were arrested Monday while holding a sit-in at Mr. McConnell’s Washington office. They and other critics have denounced the vote as a ploy to divide Democrats and throw cold water on the notion of an ambitious climate plan.But activists aren’t focusing solely on Republicans. Last week a group of schoolchildren confronted Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, over her resistance to the Green New Deal. Ms. Feinstein — who has a 100 percent lifetime rating from the League of Conservation Voters, which tracks lawmakers’ environmental records — told the students the Green New Deal had little chance of passing a Republican-led Senate. Video of the encounter spread quickly on social media.For a deep dive into both the political perils of the Green New Deal and the technological hurdles of decarbonizing the United States economy, check out this piece that Trip Gabriel and I did last week. And if you’re confused about what the Green New Deal is, I try to offer answers to some basic questions here.In other news, the White House announced last week that it had ended talks with California on whether the state could retain its right to set stricter automobile emissions standards than the federal government.The breakdown of negotiations, Hiroko Tabuchi and I reported, signals that the Trump administration is moving toward freezing an Obama-era rule that would have doubled fuel economy standards by 2025.And in the world of science, be sure not to miss this piece by Kendra Pierre-Louis on how extreme weather can start to feel … well, not all that extreme. Happy reading!For those of us hooked on the Netflix show “Tidying Up with Marie Kondo,” this has been a season of decluttering. (If you haven’t caught the bug yet, consider taking The Times’s Tidy Home Challenge).But when you clear the closets of the stuff that no longer sparks joy, or simply doesn’t fit, you are confronted with a pile of possessions in need of a new home. It may be tempting to take the junk to the dump, leave it on the curb or hand off a mass of unsorted goods to a charity that may not want or need them.Do the planet a favor instead. Many items can be sold, donated or recycled properly, giving them another life that will be better for the environment.Consider textiles, which accounted for 6.1 percent of municipal waste generated in the United States in 2015, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. In 2015, Americans recycled 2.5 million tons of textiles, but sent 10.5 million tons to landfills.“Most people think, ‘O.K., my clothing is stained, it’s garbage,’ ” said Zach Cohen, owner of the Manhattan and Brooklyn franchises of Junkluggers, a hauling company. But there are textile companies that will take clothing, rugs and “anything that is made out of fabric and reuse it and recycle it,” he said.Your tattered towels and worn-out socks, for example, can get new life as upholstery filler or insulation.
ISLAMABAD — Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Friday that he would not hesitate to make more changes to his cabinet if required a day after a major reshuffle that saw the appointment of a new finance minister and nine other ministerial switches. The cabinet shakeup, which comes eight months after Khan took office, included the replacement of Finance Minister Asad Umar, who has been a close ally to Khan for many years, with Abdul Hafeez Shaikh in a renamed role to steer the country out of worsening economic turmoil.Pakistan is on the brink of signing up for its 13th International Monetary Fund (IMF) bailout since the late 1980s in a bid to stave off a balance of payments crisis and ease ballooning current account and fiscal deficits."I want to tell all my ministers that whoever is not useful for my country, I will change them and bring that minister who is useful for my country," Khan said during a speech in the northern region of Orakzai. Shaikh, who served as finance minister from 2010-2013 under the opposition Pakistan People's Party when it was in power, has been appointed as "Adviser on Finance" but will be heading the finance ministry once again.In Pakistan' it is common for financial experts to be given the title of "adviser", rather than federal minister, to head the finance ministry when they are not a sitting member of parliament.Umar has been leading negotiations with the IMF but faced criticism over a worsening economic outlook on his watch, with inflation at a five-year high and the rupee currency down about 35 percent since December 2017.The central bank last month cut growth estimates, forecasting the economy to expand 3.5 to 4 percent in the 12 months to the end of June, well short of a government target of 6.2 percent. The IMF paints a gloomier picture, predicting growth of 2.9 percent in 2019 and 2.8 percent next year.In a speech laden with cricket metaphors, Khan, who led Pakistan's cricket team to World Cup triumph in 1992, said such changes were part of good leadership. "The captain has one objective and that is to get the team to win. The prime minister also has one objective and I have only one objective, to help my people win, to help them rise," he said. "For this, I have the changed the batting order in my team and I will do this again in the future." (Reporting by Saad Sayeed; Editing by Nick Macfie)
A. The approximately 25,000 to 30,000 different species of orchid evolved along with their many pollinators — from bees, wasps and flies, to moths, butterflies, a cricket and even the occasional bird. Many of the plant’s special shapes accommodate just one pollinator or a closely related group of pollinators. The flower may mimic the female of a pollinating insect, for example.Orchids make up about 10 percent of all extant flower types, but their genome suggests that they all descended from a common ancestor. These descendants developed a special deck of genetic cards that can be reshuffled to produce many variations of their characteristic flower plan. The plan involves bilateral symmetry, rather than radial symmetry; protective sepals alternating with petals; and usually a special lower petal, called a lip, that can serve as a landing pad for pollinators.Scientists say that this strategy is well suited to efficient pollen transfer, and can be adapted through evolution to attract different pollinators.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]
Good morning. I started writing this newsletter in the weird liminal space between Australia and the United States, caught in the 24-hour miasma that haunts the travel home. I was living in the moment, but what moment it was, what day, what hour, was a mystery. Occasionally there was food, and I ate it; water, and I drank it. Sleep came and then vanished. It was a Sofia Coppola film stuck in turnaround. The script needed work.I thought about cooking a lot, how I couldn’t wait to get back to the kitchen and boogie: a Reuben to eat with a cold beer; some fire-tingly Chinese lamb burgers to share with the family while the dog lolls beneath our feet; a green okonomiyaki to split with my wife; some sheet-pan chicken fajitas (above) to feed the kids and their friends.So there’s that. But now that I’m back home, I’d like to make a freestyle chicken Parm as well, eat it with a glass of stringent red, try to explain this story I saw in Sydney about the pressure some are bringing on the International Cricket Council to adopt one brand of cricket ball for Test matches between countries. There are lots of new words and phrases to consider there. Leg spinner!I’d like to make bananas Foster bread pudding, if only because it asserts an excellence in American dessert and I haven’t had it in ages. Also: Melissa Clark’s recipe for an omelet mousseline, into which I’d like to fold some sea urchin just as if my name were Riad Nasr or Lee Hanson. What a meal that would be! Please try it in my name.Samin Nosrat’s Roman egg drop soup? Francis Lam’s caramelized scallions, to stir into noodles? Julia Moskin’s chicken francese? Yotam Ottolenghi’s one-pan pasta with harissa Bolognese? All those, too.There are many thousands more recipes to cook this week waiting for you on NYT Cooking. (You will, yes, need a subscription to access them. Buying one supports our work!) You can also find inspiration on our Instagram, Facebook and Twitter feeds and, as always, you can ask us for help if you run into trouble with your cooking or our technology: cookingcare@nytimes.com. We will get back to you. (If you’re particularly exercised, though, don’t bother those good people. I’m at foodeditor@nytimes.com, and I absorb heat.)Now, it’s a long fly ball from Vegemite and sangers, but I think you might really like Lou Berney’s haunting “November Road,” a noir romance that takes place in the wake of the Kennedy assassination.Also, looking back toward Australia, Garry Disher’s “Whispering Death.”I missed the Amy Winehouse documentary “Amy” when it came out a few years ago. Watched it on Netflix and can’t get a few scenes out of my head. Maybe that’ll happen to you, too?Finally, a must-read: Alec MacGillis on “The Tragedy of Baltimore,” in The New York Times Magazine. See you on Wednesday? That’s the idea.
(Reuters) - Dream11 on Tuesday became India's first gaming startup to be valued at over $1 billion after its latest round of investment, joining the country's fast-growing "unicorn" club.The gaming platform, which has a 90 percent market share in the Indian fantasy sports market according to a IFSG-KPMG report, allows users to create teams for different sports. The company on Tuesday announced the completion of a secondary investment by hedge fund Steadview Capital to cross the billion mark.Dream11 declined to disclose the terms of the deal.The deal involves a secondary sale of shares by investors Kalaari Capital, Think Investments and Multiples Equity to Asia-focused Steadview.The gaming platform, which expects to end the year with 100 million users, also counts Tencent Holdings Ltd as one of its backers.Dream11 has partnerships with sports bodies and leagues such as the International Cricket Council and the National Basketball Association among others.Users pay an entry fee to participate in paid contests and the company makes money by charging a platform fee from the total pool collected. Dream11 has however faced legal challenges due to the similarities of fantasy gaming to gambling, which is largely illegal in India.Its legitimacy was challenged in a court in India, which ruled that fantasy gaming involves skill rather than chance, according to a report in April last year. (https://bit.ly/2qd8qYZ) (Reporting by Arjun Panchadar in Bengaluru; Editing by Shounak Dasgupta)
(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. 
(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. 
SYDNEY — Israel Folau's controversial social media posts have hurt the New South Wales Waratahs but the Super Rugby side have managed to refocus ahead of Saturday's clash with the Melbourne Rebels, flyhalf Bernard Foley has said.The 30-year-old Folau, a devout Christian, sparked controversy for the second time in 12 months after posting that gay people were destined for "hell" if they did not "repent". Both Rugby Australia (RA) and the Waratahs said they intended to terminate his contract over the posts, which were similar to ones he made last year, and Folau has asked for a code-of-conduct hearing to be scheduled.He has also been stood down from all rugby activity by the Waratahs and is unavailable for the clash with the Australian-conference leading Rebels at the Sydney Cricket Ground."I think he's hurt the team, which is not what we're doing and not why we play sport," Foley told reporters in Sydney on Friday. "We're a team and we encourage diversity."I also don't think Izzy is a bad guy ... but I don't agree with what he's done so it's a tough situation."Rugby is an inclusive sport. We want to engage all the diversity we have. We want a team sport that encourages diversity, to be inclusive of all backgrounds and all religions and all faiths."Foley added that the Waratahs had pulled together in the face of the controversy."What we experienced last year ... when there was controversy, the side really galvanized," he said. "This week the team have come together. They know what the job is at hand."It comes down to how we perform as a team, not as individuals," he said. "I think we have the depth in this side to be able to cope with that."We're looking forward to going out there and getting the job done."The Rebels lead the Australia conference on 23 points, with the Waratahs second on 16 having played a game less. (Reporting by Greg Stutchbury in Wellington; Editing by Peter Rutherford)
WASHINGTON — The U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday approved a bill on a 232 to 190 vote to reinstate landmark net neutrality protections adopted in 2015, but the effort faces an uphill battle to become law.Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell said Tuesday the bill overturning a Federal Communications Commission December 2017 repeal would be "dead on arrival" in the Senate. The White House said Tuesday aides would recommend President Donald Trump veto the bill, which would reinstate rules barring providers from blocking or slowing internet content or offering paid "fast lanes."The reversal of net neutrality rules has been a win for internet service providers (ISPs) such as Comcast Corp, AT&T Inc and Verizon Communications Inc, but was opposed by companies like Facebook Inc, Amazon.com Inc and Alphabet Inc.Republicans have said the bill would open the door to the FCC imposing rate regulations or adding taxes to internet service similar to levies on cable or phone bills. Democrats say the bill is essential to ensuring the government enforces rules that prohibit improper conduct by internet providers and guarantee Americans access to an open internet.Just one Republican, Florida Representative Bill Posley, voted with 231 Democrats. No Democrats voted against the measure.Representative Mike Doyle, a Democrat, said Wednesday that after repealing net neutrality protections the FCC had replaced them with "nothing, nada, zip, crickets. They did nothing. It's the wild, wild west -- let the ISPs do anything they want and consumers be damned."Under FCC chairman Ajit Pai, the commission voted 3-2 to hand ISPs sweeping powers to recast how Americans use the internet, as long as they disclose changes.In a statement Wednesday, Pai called the House bill a "big-government solution in search of a problem."USTelecom, a trade group, said internet providers support net neutrality protections but oppose the 2015 FCC order that reclassified the internet as a utility-style service that handed the FCC sweeping authority to regulate it.A federal appeals court upheld the 2015 net neutrality rules, while another appellate panel is considering whether the 2017 FCC order is legal. California and some other states have adopted their own net neutrality rules but they are on hold pending the outcome of the challenge to Pai's order. (Reporting by David Shepardson; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Tom Brown)
Every month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are our picks for March, broken down by release date.[Not the month you’re looking for? Find the newest Netflix Australia guide here.]‘Cricket Fever: Mumbai Indians’ Starts streaming: March 1Following up on the success of the American football-themed “Last Chance U,” Netflix looks to India for its next multipart sports documentary. “Cricket Fever” follows a perennially successful cricket club, the Mumbai Indians, during a season when players struggled to measure up to their usual standards. Cricket fans ought to appreciate an intimate look behind the scenes, but even viewers who don’t know the game well will have the chance to get caught up in the personal experiences of these athletes as they strive to remain excellent.—‘Losers’Starts streaming: March 1Sports’ biggest failures are often held up as cautionary tales, or treated as minor characters in someone else’s triumph. The docu-series “Losers” looks back at moments when athletes flopped spectacularly, and asks how — or if — they’ve recovered. Some of these subjects are fairly well known, like the golfer Jean van de Velde’s meltdown at the 1999 Open Championship in Scotland, or the figure skater Surya Bonaly defiantly finishing her Olympic career with an illegal move. But even the less familiar stories are fascinating, focusing not just on the worst moments of these people’s lives, but on what happened next.—‘After Life’Starts streaming: March 8The “Extras” and “The Office” comedian Ricky Gervais leans heavily on his offscreen reputation as a fearless and at times careless truth-teller in his new series, “After Life,” in which he stars as a man who reacts to his wife’s death by becoming angry and unfiltered. Gervais wrote and directed the entire six-episode first season, which like his earlier TV work tries to balance brutal black comedy with earnest sentiment. But this particular show — even more than its predecessors — seems intended to deliver a heartfelt message, woven throughout its scenes of insults and profane outbursts.—‘Terrace House: Opening New Doors’ Part 6Starts streaming: March 12The latest iteration of the Japanese reality series “Terrace House” comes to an end with nine final episodes, all following a group of men and women who’ve agreed to live together, and to go on dates with each other, with cameras following their every move — and with a panel of commentators sharing jokes and best wishes. Unlike some reality concepts that push participants toward artificial conflict, or encourage them to lower their inhibitions, “Terrace House” has won a faithful audience around the world for its refreshing mundanity. This show delivers what the reality genre has often promised: a chance to peek into ordinary people’s lives and judge how they interact.—‘Love, Death & Robots’Starts streaming: March 15
SYDNEY — Israel Folau's controversial views that have created a furore in Australian rugby have an element of "selfishness" and are "completely wrong", according to Wallabies scrumhalf Will Genia.The 30-year-old Folau, a devout Christian, created controversy for the second time in 12 months for Rugby Australia (RA) by using social media to express personal views that said gay people were destined for "hell" if they did not "repent". Both RA and the New South Wales Waratahs said they intended to terminate his contract for the social media posts, which were similar to ones he posted last year, and Folau has asked for a code-of-conduct hearing to be scheduled.The posts also drew criticism from national coach Michael Cheika, while Folau has also been stood down from all rugby activity by the Waratahs, who host Genia's Australian-conference leading Melbourne Rebels in Sydney on Saturday."You can have your beliefs and have faith in what you want to have faith in but you can't go around trying to tell people they should be going to hell because they are a certain way," Genia told the Fox Rugby podcast in Australia. "For me that's completely wrong."Genia, who described Folau as "humble" and "very quiet", added his beliefs had never been a problem within the national team environment in the past but could cause issues now."He's got to realise that there are other people within that group, both at the Waratahs and Wallabies, that have certain beliefs as well, that very much conflict with what he's come out and said and done," Genia added.Folau had last year assured both Cheika and RA chief executive Raelene Castle that he would not make his views public again, which Genia said had now likely led to a total breach of trust."If you've gone and said those things to Cheik and Raelene there's a breach of trust and I guess there's an element of selfishness about it as well," Genia added."You can have your beliefs but at the end of the day you're also contracted to Rugby Australia and the NSW Waratahs, who as your employers stand for certain things in society, who want to promote the game a certain way."Obviously being inclusive of gender, sexual preference, religion, background, whatever it might be. So when you sign up to your contract to do that, you adhere to those rules, you adhere to what's been set out."Folau's place in the Waratahs for Saturday's clash at the Sydney Cricket Ground has been taken by Wallabies team mate Kurtley Beale.The Rebels lead the Australian conference on 23 points, seven ahead of the Waratahs, who have a game in hand. (Reporting by Greg Stutchbury; Editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]As Petland Discounts opened stores across metropolitan New York, the pet store chain was propelled in no small part by a catchy commercial jingle that is now embedded in the region’s collective consciousness.“Petland Discounts,” a nondescript chorus crooned over joyous synthesizer music. “For the best care a pet can get.”Later this year, that may no longer be the case.Last month, just days after the death of its longtime owner, Petland Discounts announced that it may have to close dozens of its stores and lay off workers in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, according to notices filed with each state’s Department of Labor.The company, which for decades has supplied pet owners with everything needed to keep their animal companions well fed, clean and happy, said in the documents that it would have to lay off more than 300 employees across more than 70 locations.Amy Eisenberg, Petland Discounts’ director of public relations and special events, told The Brooklyn Daily Eagle that the company’s closing was not certain. She said Petland Discounts filed the notices in case it needed to close amid the uncertainty caused by the death of its president and founder, Neil Padron.“Neil is the sole proprietor, and the family is still trying to figure everything out,” Ms. Eisenberg, who is Mr. Padron’s daughter, said. Ms. Eisenberg declined to comment for this article.But Mayor Dwayne Warren of Orange, N.J., said in a statement on Wednesday that a national representative of Petland Discounts told him it would “permanently close all company operations,” including the chain’s outpost in his city, because of Mr. Padron’s death.Staff and customers at Petland Discounts stores in Brooklyn on Friday acted as though the closings were all but certain. The fish tanks’ bubbles were still roiling and the cockatiels kept chirping, but the people were glum.Tatiana Vazquez, the Park Slope store’s manager, said she had known about her store’s impending closure for about a week.She said Petland Discounts was struggling to compete with online retailers. Fish food priced $13 at her store, she said, could sell for $5 at the pet store site Chewy.com.Luis Garcia, 48, who has worked at the store in Sunset Park for the past three years, said that initially he was told that the chain could stay open if the owner’s heirs found a buyer. He has since learned that the company will help him find another job, which he saw as a sign that the closure is final.Mr. Garcia added that he considers his workplace “a public zoo.”Mr. Padron, who died Jan. 14 from bladder cancer, started his pet retail business in Queens in 1965. His first store was a tropical fish emporium that sold aquatic creatures, as well as the aquariums and supplies needed to maintain them.
LONDON — Reza Rashidian could give Dos Equis’ famous and fictional “most interesting man in the world” a run for his money.Mr. Rashidian has been a racecar driver, big game hunter, movie producer, real estate magnate, bon vivant, aspiring poet and artist, and noted collector — of cars, 19th-century animal sculptures, and watches.It took him more than 20 years of dedicated hunting to amass what he called “the ultimate” dive watch collection, featuring what several industry experts have called one of the rarest watches in existence: Rolex’s Deepsea Special Number One. (The collection recently was detailed in the book “A Journey Into the Deep” by John Goldberger and Daniel Bourn.)As Mr. Rashidian is considered a friend of Phillips auction house, and its London office on Berkeley Square was a convenient place to take a look at some of his scores of watches, we met on a recent springlike afternoon. And Mr. Rashidian explained why, after years of collecting all manner of watches, he decided to focus on Rolex stainless steel dive watches. “These watches went to the greatest depths on earth,” he said, with divers risking their lives and equipment. The watches “are firmly a part of the human condition.”The collector witnessed another side of the human condition firsthand as a young boy growing up in Tehran. In 1978 his father, who was in banking and real estate, sensed unrest and moved the family to a home they had in London, “just for the summer,” Mr. Rashidian said. But the Shah of Iran was deposed in January 1979 and the family — its banks confiscated and some of its friends killed — never left England. Mr. Rashidian, now 52, lived in London most of his life before moving to Switzerland three years ago, trading the city for the mountains.Nature was an important part of the collector’s early years, too. When he was 5 he started hunting with his uncle. “It wasn’t about killing,” he said, but being outdoors and “experiencing nature in the rain, the snow, in all its guises.” His shoots might have taken him to Ethiopia or Tajikistan for weeks at a time, sleeping in tents or shacks. “You have to love the outdoors,” he said.Hunting led him to create the cultishly popular Pro Hunter watch in 2006 after Rolex refused to customize one of its watches with a black case and glass (to eliminate reflection), fixed lugs and a NATO strap (to replace a bracelet that, Mr. Rashidian said, “you can’t crawl with, it digs in.”) So he developed his own timepiece.Soon others wanted one, and owners now include President Bill Clinton; Antoine Arnault of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton; François-Henri Pinault of Kering; Prince Pavlos of Greece; and Mr. Rashidian’s friends Tim Jeffries, owner of Hamiltons gallery in London, and the actor Jonathan Rhys Meyers.Mr. Rashidian now is no longer involved in the business. And he no longer hunts. Not for big game, anyway, but he said he used some of the same strategies when collecting. A hunt starts with research, which “interests me more than the ownership,” he said, a testament to his years studying history at London and Oxford universities. Another of the joys: “When you collect you find people with similar enthusiasm, and you share it,” at dinners and events where he meets other watch fans.His love of watches began early: His father, who died when Mr. Rashidian was 13, gave him his first watch. Mr. Rashidian opened a case and displayed a Rolex Oyster Perpetual Datejust, with a strap now too small to circle his wrist. “This put the thought in my head. This is where it started,” he said.Next, his mother gave him a gold Rolex Day-Date Oysterquartz for his 18th birthday, and soon after Mr. Rashidian made his own first purchase, a Rolex stainless steel GMT Master. (He raised the sleeve of his Hackett suit jacket to show that he still wears it.)In his 20s, when he started collecting watches, he bought some contemporary models like Patek Philippes, Audemars Piguets and Breguets. And Rolexes, which he said he preferred to wear because they stood up to constant use and were “more approachable, and stainless steel is much more approachable.” He still has some of these early purchases in his collection.The more he learned about watches — especially about their histories, he said — the more he gravitated toward vintage ones. And few watches can rival the story of the Rolex Deep Sea Special Number One: In 1953, the watch, which has a signature bubble-shaped crystal, was strapped to the outside of the Trieste bathyscaph before the research vessel went two miles deep in the waters off Italy’s Ponza Island, withstanding pressure of 8,820 pounds per square inch.The bathyscaph and the watch later went down even farther, to nearly 2.3 miles deep. As a result, Rolex marketing began making the brand’s claim to dive watch supremacy and, by extension, sports watch dominance.Mr. Rashidian had brought the Deepsea Special Number One with him, and carefully removed the timepiece from its special case to display its unusual 35-millimeter thickness and distinctive domed crystal. He placed it on the table with the other watches he had brought. “There,” he said in a “ta-da” moment, “is the most famous Rolex dive watch in the world sitting next to the dinky one I got as a boy.”
LOS ANGELES — “We got a plane!”Sitcom showrunners have no shortage of logistical worries, but air traffic isn’t generally among them. That is, unless you happen to be shooting your sitcom in a backyard beside the Burbank airport.And so it was that Josh Malmuth, the creator of the new sitcom “Abby’s,” stared at the sky one night last fall as his production ground to a halt, girding himself for another shoot to be interrupted every 15 minutes or so by an assistant producer with word of a plane, or a helicopter, or perhaps a drone.“And so it begins,” he muttered.Such are the wages of innovation. “Abby’s,” which debuts March 28 on NBC, is a 10-episode multicamera sitcom that is shot almost entirely outside, a simple-sounding tweak that nevertheless turns one of the hoariest of television conventions into something that, as far as anyone can tell, has never really been done before.Natalie Morales (“Parks and Recreation,” “White Collar”) stars as Abby, an ex-Marine who turns her backyard into a neighborhood watering hole, where an array of quirky regulars, including Neil Flynn (“The Middle”), Nelson Franklin (“Veep”) and Jessica Chaffin (“Search Party”), pass their evenings and tee up one another’s punch lines.It’s the same basic setup that has undergirded any number of workplace shows and other comedies based on improvised families. This includes perhaps the greatest of all sitcoms, “Cheers,” which also happens to be the series against which all other bar comedies will be measured.“The ‘Cheers’ comparisons have been what everybody talks about, and listen, we’ll take it,” Morales said. “That being said, there have been a lot of medical shows, a lot of law shows, and people hang out in bars a lot. So we were like, ‘I think it’s fine to do another bar show.’”The concept was inspired by Bacchanal, a New Orleans wine bar that consists largely of a graceful courtyard (and which figured in a rainy subplot in “Treme”). Malmuth, a San Diego native, moved the concept to his hometown and convinced Michael Schur, one of the most prolific sitcom makers in show business these days, to help him develop it.At first glance, Schur would seem to be an unlikely choice for a multicamera sitcom, the classic form — generally consisting of actors performing on a contained set before multiple cameras and a studio audience — that defined TV comedy for decades, from “I Love Lucy” to “All In the Family” to “The Cosby Show” to “Seinfeld” and “Friends.”Schur’s tightly serialized, philosophically inquisitive “The Good Place” is widely acclaimed for its narrative ambition, and the earlier filmic, single-camera shows he worked on, like “The Office” and “Parks and Recreation,” were instrumental in creating the perception that the multicamera format, with its stagy setups and broadly telegraphed jokes, was a relic of a simpler TV era. Even CBS’s soon-to-depart “Big Bang Theory,” TV’s top-rated show for much of the past decade and the longest-running multicamera sitcom in history, went single-cam for its spinoff, “Young Sheldon.”But Schur was intrigued by the idea, so he and Malmuth hopped in a golf cart and drove around the Universal lot in search of an ideal spot. They found it on the former Wisteria Lane, where the stars of “Desperate Housewives” once backstabbed (and front-stabbed, and actually stabbed) their way to ratings gold.After NBC gave the go-ahead, an outdoor studio was built behind the house that once belonged to Edie (the desperate housewife played by Nicollette Sheridan). The goal was to split the difference between a conventional set — with water- and windproof lighting rigs and a smooth, level concrete slab for easy camera movement — and a backyard, with strung lights, fire pits and largely unobstructed natural elements.“There’s an episode when you see Jessica’s hair blowing a little more than it probably would, but that’s part of being outside,” said Franco Bario, the co-executive producer who oversaw construction of the set. “The more it looks like a stage, the less important it is that we’re out here.”The set includes bleachers for the just over 100 people who provide what amounts to an outdoor laugh track — each episode opens by noting, in a nod to sitcom intros of yore, that “‘Abby’s’ was filmed before a live outdoor audience.” To reinforce the notion, the cameras will occasionally pull back before and after commercial breaks to show the crowd and set.
ISLAMABAD — Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan said he thinks there may be a better chance of peace talks with India if Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wins the general election due to begin there on Thursday.Khan said that if the next Indian government were led by the opposition Congress party, it might be too scared to seek a settlement with Pakistan over disputed Indian-controlled Kashmir, fearing a backlash from the right."Perhaps if the BJP - a right-wing party - wins, some kind of settlement in Kashmir could be reached," Khan told a small group of foreign journalists in an interview.This was despite the massive alienation that Muslims in Kashmir and Muslims in general were facing in Modi's India, said Khan, who took office last August."I never thought I would see what is happening in India right now," said the former international cricket star. "Muslim-ness is being attacked."Khan said Indian Muslims he knew who many years ago had been happy about their situation in India were now very worried by extreme Hindu nationalism.He said Modi, like Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, was electioneering based on "fear and nationalist feeling".The BJP's pledge this week to propose stripping decades-old special rights from the people of Jammu and Kashmir, which prevent outsiders from buying property in the state, was a major concern, though it could also be electioneering, Khan said. Khan did appear to offer India an olive branch, saying that Islamabad was determined to dismantle all Pakistan-based militias in the country, and that the government had full support from Pakistan's powerful army for the program. Those to be dismantled include groups involved in Kashmir.Nuclear-armed neighbors Pakistan and India both claim Kashmir in full but rule in part.Khan said Kashmir was a political struggle and there was no military solution, adding that Kashmiris suffered if armed militants from Pakistan came across the border, leading to Indian army crackdowns.Relations between Pakistan and India, which have fought three wars since gaining independence from Britain in 1947, two over Kashmir, reached a crisis point in February after a suicide bombing killed 40 Indian paramilitary police in Kashmir.Islamabad denied responsibility for the Feb. 14 attack, which was claimed by Pakistan-based militant group Jaish-e-Mohammed, but the bombing prompted India to carry out a cross border air strike against what it said was a militant training camp in Pakistan.Pakistan responded with air strikes of its own.Pollsters say Modi and the BJP's re-election bid got a boost from a wave of patriotism after the suicide bomb attack and the Indian government's fast response.
The Canadian government said on Wednesday that it would withdraw up to half of its diplomatic staff in Havana, as it disclosed that another employee had fallen ill with the mysterious symptoms that have affected dozens of Americans and Canadians stationed in Cuba.Since early 2017, American and Canadian government employees in Cuba have suffered strange symptoms such as dizziness, insomnia, hearing loss and nausea when using a computer. Canada’s government said that, in all, 14 Canadian employees, spouses and dependents have been affected.Global Affairs Canada, the nation’s foreign ministry, said that after the last confirmed case of unusual symptoms, in November 2018, Canadian staff members in Havana undertook additional medical testing. Those tests confirmed “an additional employee has symptoms consistent with those of previously affected employees,” the ministry’s statement said.Though the Canadian government had started “revised security measures,” it said, “we have decided to reduce by up to half the number of Canadian staff posted to Havana.”The Canadian Embassy will continue to function with consular services and an ambassador, the ministry said, but some programs may be affected. It did not respond to questions about current or future staffing numbers.There was no evidence that Canadian travelers are at risk, the ministry said.So far, 26 Americans have been affected with similar maladies, according to the State Department, and doctors who examined some of the Americans said they had suffered inner-ear damage.But neither the United States nor Canada has determined a cause for the symptoms, leading to speculation that some kind of microwave weapon may have been deployed against the diplomats, who have described hearing a strange, high-pitched sound, often accompanied by a sensation of intense pressure.Two scientists have also suggested that a species of loud, droning cricket may have been responsible for the noise, although its sounds are rapid-fire pulses while the diplomats described an erratic sound.The United States has also withdrawn personnel from its embassy in Havana, reducing its operations to a bare-bones staff of about two dozen. And in October 2017 the Trump administration expelled over a dozen Cuban diplomats over the illnesses, after issuing a warning to Americans not to travel to the island.Cuba has denied any responsibility for the illnesses, and condemned the expulsions of diplomats as a “hasty, inappropriate and unthinking” decision that was motivated by politics.While the Trump administration said those expulsions did not signal a change in policy toward Cuba, it has taken a more hostile stance to Havana than the Obama administration, which began normalizing relations with the old Cold War foe.
Adolescence is hard enough, but how are you supposed to handle trauma in the family when your parents are overwhelmed, absent, overbearing or just plain oblivious? Anger and grief have a way of hijacking your mind and heart, so when you can’t get through to parents, you do what the tweens in these middle-grade novels do: Find a distinctive way of dealing with it, and learn that grown-up thing of putting on a good face even if you’re crumbling inside.In Lindsey Stoddard’s RIGHT AS RAIN (Harper, 304 pp., $16.99; ages 8 to 12), the traumatic event is the sudden death of Rain’s teenage brother, Guthrie. At their relentlessly optimistic mother’s behest, they move from Vermont to New York City, while their father slips into depression. They arrive in Washington Heights dazed, a non-Spanish-speaking white family in a Latino neighborhood, and over the next two weeks — the time of the novel — a lot happens: Rain enrolls in a new middle school, joins the track team, qualifies for the city championship, enlists her stuporous father in building a community garden, and hopes that her parents will be the “one in four” couples that survives the death of a child.Stoddard has a knack for writing strong, feisty protagonists, like the heroine in her first book, “Just Like Jackie.” Although Rain is wounded by her brother’s death and anxious about her parents’ arguments, she is a self-assured problem solver. She has a thing for numbers: She counts — bricks, miles, minutes, anything — to “empty her brain” and finds solace in running. Stoddard’s exploration of grief’s grip on a family rings true and tender; she does a remarkable job of conveying the emotional haze Rain’s outward confidence hides. Lovely, dreamy chapters (each entitled “That Night”) flicker through the novel, chronicling Guthrie’s final hours and revealing the guilt Rain feels over his death. There, we see Rain at her vulnerable best: saving herself, if not her parents’ marriage.Carter Jones’s parents’ marriage will not survive the death of a child — that we know early on. In Gary D. Schmidt’s PAY ATTENTION, CARTER JONES (Clarion, 224 pp., $16.99; ages 10 to 12), 12-year-old Carter’s heartbroken family is propped up by an endearing visitor: an English butler who worked with their grandfather. The dapper, cultivated Mr. Bowles-Fitzpatrick attends to Carter, his three younger sisters and a vomiting dachshund, while their mother sorts out the death of 6-year-old Currier and the absence of her soldier husband.Carter is a good, compassionate kid, but he’s torn up inside and steamed by his father’s lack of communication. Schmidt seamlessly fuses humor and tragedy here, as he did in his Newbery Honor book “The Wednesday Wars.” The butler can be a “pain in the glute” and a “blabber,” Carter tells us, while Mr. Bowles-Fitzpatrick gently chides that you should never “begin your sentence with a subordinating conjunction,” like “because.” The repartee takes the edge off the loneliness Carter feels: “When you carry stuff like this around, you never know what kind of day it’s going to be.”It’s striking that Schmidt chose cricket to put a spin on the boy-as-athlete motif. During a crucial match Carter’s grief spills over. He has flashbacks of his most recent encounter with his father, on a camping trip after Currier died. The place had poisonous snakes, crocodiles and screeching birds, and Carter confronted his father for being absent when Currier was ill. Now, as the lengthy cricket match proceeds, he hears people in the crowd telling him to “pay attention,” which is precisely what his father was unable to do. One suspects that Carter, as he grows, will be more attentive to those emotions. He already is.There’s no overt trauma in Aida Salazar’s debut novel, THE MOON WITHIN (Scholastic, 240 pp., $16.99; ages 8 to 12), but the circumstances leading up to a Mexican-Puerto Rican black girl’s initiation into womanhood include anger and an overbearing mother. Celi is seething at her Mima for insisting on a “moon ceremony,” an indigenous coming-of-age ritual to celebrate a first period. Lately, Celi’s “flor” (as her mother calls it) tingles when she’s around Iván, whom she knows from a cultural center in Oakland. So when Mima overshares by telling Iván what a moon ceremony is, Celi stands by feeling “like someone is stepping / on my chest / my breath stolen away.” Meanwhile, Celi’s best friend, Magda, is entering puberty a different way, taking the name Marco and identifying as male. The gender transition seems smooth enough — until Iván insults Marco and Celi laughs. Ashamed at putting her crush before her best friend, she stows it in her “heart locket” — the imaginary place she puts her deepest feelings.Salazar tells the story in free verse, which works well to convey Celi’s emotions, giving them a powerful, beautiful charge (“Mima leaves me to cry / sitting in a soup / of hummingbird herbs and rage”), and less well for dialogue (“What you doing next week, Celi? / Iván asks suddenly. / You wanna go to the skate park?”). Although the novel has been compared to Judy Blume’s “Are You There, God? It’s Me, Margaret,” an instant classic in 1970 for its frank expression of how girls feel about their changing bodies, Salazar’s book, half a century on, is less saucy: Where Blume’s girls exuberantly chanted “We must! We must! We must increase our bust!,” Celi wilts with embarrassment when Mima calls her father to celebrate that “our girl is growing breasts!”Salazar’s take on menstruation is contemporary and important, however: It presents families of mixed-race heritage embracing ancestral traditions (Celi eventually does), accepting gender fluidity and acting generally body-positive. Marco, raised Magdalena, has a ceremony as well: one to celebrate his “Ometeotl energy / a person who inhabits two beings / the female and the male at once.” For all that, Marco is still biologically female. Had he also gotten his first period, Salazar might have truly explored uncharted emotional terrain.Sam Abernathy first appeared as a high school freshman in “Stand-Off,” the second novel in Andrew Smith’s Y.A. series “Winger.” So THE SIZE OF THE TRUTH (Simon & Schuster, 272 pp., $17.99; ages 8 to 12) is a prequel of sorts. As a 4-year-old in Blue Creek, Tex., Sam spent three days trapped at the bottom of a well, and the murky memory now shows up in his claustrophobia and his fear of the “murderer” James Jenkins, an eighth-grade boy he thinks pushed him into the well all those years ago. Now 11, Sam skips from sixth to eighth grade, where he struggles with being smaller than his classmates. He harbors a secret desire to be a chef, while his father wants him to go to M.I.T. and become a scientist.Smith’s narration alternates between sections called “Eighth Grade” and hallucinatory sections rendering Sam’s three days in the well, spent with a snarky armadillo (this is Texas) named Bartleby. Bartleby is a Yoda figure (“Don’t go living your life only trying to avoid holes”), and there’s a fantastical cantina-style scene, too: a choir of bats singing gospel music, a coyote waitress, Spanish-speaking otters and the coffin of a bank robber from 1888. The zany, philosophical conversation between Sam and Bartleby is sophisticated for a tween (yes, the armadillo utters his namesake’s famous line), but it’s thoroughly enjoyable: I happily would have read a book just about the two of them.Smith’s delightful evocation of the weird and his ongoing exploration of masculinity show up in this novel, too. Sam’s father, a kilt-wearing proprietor of a miniature golf course, takes him on survivalist camping trips. James Jenkins turns out to have a surprising passion other than football. He and Sam both have to face their fathers, and stand up for their less traditional choices.The truth, here as in all these engaging middle-grade novels, turns out to be large and complicated, made more so by growing up with loss and the heightened reality it brings. With ample reasons to succumb to grief or unhappiness, these undaunted tweens prefer not to.
On Feb. 14, a 19-year-old drove a vehicle filled with explosives into a convoy of Indian paramilitary forces in Indian-administered Kashmir and killed 49 soldiers. Jaish-e-Muhammad, or the Army of Muhammad, a Pakistan-based terrorist group, claimed responsibility for the attack.Over the past five years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party has governed India and been part of the local government in Kashmir as well, thus controlling India’s policy approaches to the disputed, conflict-torn region. Mr. Modi embraced a militaristic approach and shunned a political process involving dialogue with the separatists in Kashmir. Consequently, the number of civilian and security personnel killed in the region have increased, and a growing number of young Kashmiris, like Adil Dar, the 19-year-old suicide bomber, joined militant groups.These are inconvenient facts for Mr. Modi, who has continually attacked India’s opposition parties for being soft on terror and compromising national security. As the deaths of the soldiers come three months before a general election, an honest evaluation of Mr. Modi’s failed policy should have led to him to being held accountable.Such questions, naturally, receded into the background in the immediate aftermath of the Kashmir bombing, in a national outpouring of grief. Before those pertinent questions would return to the national conversation, Mr. Modi spun the bad news to his advantage by turning the grief into an emotive and prolonged commemoration of the deaths of the soldiers.As Indian television networks followed the coffins of the slain troops draped in the Indian flag on their final journey home, Mr. Modi’s party directed its senior leaders to attend the cremations, which were telecast live. The funerals became occasions for patriotic avowals, some genuine, some orchestrated, as politicians sought to ensure they were part of the frame.Mr. Modi ratcheted up the rhetoric against Pakistan and suggested that India would retaliate militarily. “Security forces have been given complete freedom, the blood of the people is boiling,” he said. On social media and television networks, retired military generals, such as G.D. Bakshi, echoed Mr. Modi’s words and described the bombing in Kashmir as an act of war. “They started it but we will finish it,” he said.The venerable Cricket Club of India, a colonial institution founded in 1933, decided to do its part by draping a portrait of Pakistan’s prime minister, Imran Khan, which had been put up to honor his cricketing feats in the last century. The mourning took on a more sinister note as gangs of young men started parading the streets of many Indian cities, including New Delhi, shouting slogans directed at Pakistan and “anti-nationals” — the preferred term of the Hindu nationalists for perceived foes and undesirables ranging from liberals to Muslims.Several Hindu nationalist affiliates of Mr. Modi’s party led a campaign that targeted students from Kashmir studying in educational institutions across India. They managed to extract promises from a few colleges that they would not admit Kashmiri students. The tone and tenor of the marches and the threats to Kashmiri students were not lost even on Mr. Modi’s own allies. In an editorial in its party newspaper, Shiv Sena, the Mumbai-based Hindu nationalist party, cautioned the prime minister that “there were political allegations that Prime Minister Narendra Modi could wage a small-scale war to win elections …. The rulers should not behave in a manner that these allegations gain credence.”Mr. Modi’s political use of the deaths of “martyrs” is not new to India, but we haven’t seen it at such a scale since India and Pakistan fought a limited war over Kashmir in 1999. In the past two decades, Indian security forces have periodically been targets of violent insurgent attacks, some causing even larger numbers of casualties, but the grief has run its normal course.Mr. Modi and his party seem to be working on a template of exploiting calamitous deaths that they have used before. In February 2002, soon after he took over as chief minister of the western Indian state of Gujarat, a train carrying Hindu religious volunteers was allegedly set on fire in the town of Godhra by a group of Muslims. Fifty-nine people died. Mr. Modi ensured the bodies of the dead were taken to the Ahmedabad, the largest city in the state, and paraded through the city. Violence broke out soon after. Hindu mobs fueled by incendiary rhetoric from leaders of organizations affiliated with the Bharatiya Janata Party, targeted homes and businesses owned by Muslims. Over a thousand people were killed, over 700 of them Muslims.
LONDON — When Alfred Smith and Bob Weighton were born, Edward VII was king of Britain. They have lived through two world wars, more than 20 prime ministers and the entire rule of Britain’s longest-reigning monarch. They also saw Britain join the predecessor of the European Union — a bloc it was supposed to leave on Friday, the day both men turned 111.As it became clear that the withdrawal known as Brexit wouldn’t happen on his birthday after all, Mr. Weighton, who lives in southern England, echoed a growing frustration with the current political deadlock, calling it “a total mess.”“My own feeling is that if there were defects — and there were quite obviously defects — we can negotiate on the inside rather than walking off the field with the cricket ball and saying ‘I’m not playing,’” Mr. Weighton told the BBC.But the most common question he has been asked does not concern politics. He said most people wanted to know the secret to his longevity — something to which he could not respond.“I have no answer, except to avoid dying,” he said.The oldest person on record living in Britain is a woman: Grace Jones turned 112 in September. But men are increasingly living past the age of 90, and more than 14,000 centenarians were living in Britain in 2017, the most recent year such statistics are available, according to the Office for National Statistics.Government population estimates see the number of centenarians passing 65,000 by 2031.Most British citizens receive a personal greeting from Queen Elizabeth II on their 100th and 105th birthdays, and one for each year past the age of 110. Mr. Weighton told the BBC that he would ask the monarch to stop sending him cards in order to save public funds.Mr. Weighton and Mr. Smith, who lives in Scotland, were both born on March 29, 1908. In recent years, their photographs have appeared in the news side by side, sitting in armchairs 500 miles apart. Though they have never met in person, the two men have exchanged birthday cards.“I feel he’s a twin brother, although technically he’s not,” Mr. Smith said of Mr. Weighton in an interview last year with the Scottish network STV.Both men have led an adventurous life spanning continents and different jobs. In the 1930s, Mr. Weighton taught at a missionary school in Taiwan, and moved to the United States by way of Canada.He and his wife, Agnes, were in the United States during the attack on Pearl Harbor that drew the country into World War II. He has a son who married a Swede and a daughter who married a German.“I flatly refuse to regard my grandchildren as foreigners,” he told The Guardian last year. “I’m an internationalist, but I’ve not lost my pride in being a Yorkshireman or British.”Mr. Smith immigrated to Canada in 1927 and worked on a farm there. But he returned to Scotland after five years to drive trucks for his brother. He was a farmer until his retirement at the age of 70.“I like to think I’ve lived a decent life,” he told The Scotsman newspaper this past week. “I do ask myself — why me? Why have I lived so long when others haven’t?” he asked. His wife died more than 15 years ago at 97, and one of his sons died in 2016.
Every month, Netflix Canada adds a new batch of TV shows and movies to its library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for March, broken down by release date. Netflix occasionally changes schedules without giving notice.‘Eighth Grade’Starts streaming: March 1The ordeals of adolescent girlhood have been chronicled many times on screen, but not since Todd Solondz’s “Welcome to the Dollhouse” have they been as acutely registered as they are in Bo Burnham’s directorial debut. “Eighth Grade” doesn’t share the sourness of Solondz’s film, however, empathizing strongly with Kayla (Elsie Fisher) as she posts would-be viral videos, throws herself into awkward social situations and rolls her eyes at her overly attentive single father (Josh Hamilton), who doesn’t know how to help her. Burnham is particularly smart about integrating social media and messaging into Kayla’s story, and showing the ways they reinforce her isolation and desire to connect.‘La La Land’Starts streaming: March 1In the aftermath of its false Best Picture win against “Moonlight,” it’s been easy to forget how much momentum and good will Damien Chazelle’s throwback musical carried into Oscar night and how big a shock it was that it lost. But one of the benefits of “La La Land” not winning Best Picture is that it’s no longer freighted by the “importance” that goes along with the title. Chazelle’s musical pastiche about the Hollywood romance between an actress (Emma Stone) and a jazz pianist (Ryan Gosling) was always meant to be a light evocation of Gene Kelly and Ginger Rogers vehicles, coupled with the bittersweet quality of “The Umbrellas of Cherbourg,” and it’s now free to be enjoyed on those terms.‘The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind’Starts streaming: March 1The superb character actor Chiwetel Ejiofor makes his directorial debut with this adaptation of the best-selling memoir about a Malawian teenager who takes it upon himself to save his impoverished village. Maxwell Simba stars as William Kamkwamba, a boy who loses his education when his family can no longer afford to send him to school, but who become an autodidact to bring electricity and water to his drought-ravaged area. Using scrap materials and science textbooks, he attempts to construct his own wind turbine. Ejiofor gives himself a key supporting role as Kamkwamba’s father, who greets his son’s initiative with a mix of pride and practical concern.‘Juanita’Starts streaming: March 8Alfre Woodard has been acting in movies and on television for 40 years, and she’s as vibrant and appealing as ever in “Juanita,” a late-in-life road movie/romance that has been constructed around the title character’s range and adventurousness. Adapted from Sheila Williams’s novel “Dancing on the Edge of the Roof,” the film stars Woodard as a middle-aged woman who follows a one-way Greyhound bus ticket from the Columbus, Ohio, projects to Montana, where she turns around a struggling diner and finds refuge (and love). But on a journey intended to liberate her, she worries about being tied down someplace else.‘Triple Frontier’Starts streaming: March 13Netflix’s most prominent — and promising — film release in March brings together J.C. Chandor, the superb director of “All Is Lost” and “A Most Violent Year,” and Mark Boal, the screenwriter of “The Hurt Locker” and “Zero Dark Thirty,” for the story of an audacious heist that’s somewhere between greed and justice. Oscar Isaac, Ben Affleck, Charlie Hunnam, Pedro Pascal and Garrett Hedlund star as former Special Forces operatives who attempt to steal millions in cash from a South American drug cartel. The good news for them? The authorities won’t care about a cartel getting robbed. The bad news? The cartel definitely will.‘The Death of Stalin’Starts streaming: March 22With “The Thick of It,” “In the Loop” and “Veep,” Armando Iannucci firmly established himself as the most scabrous political satirist of the 21st century, but he goes back to the middle of the 20th for “The Death of Stalin,” which digs into the chaos and folly that follow the death of a tyrannical dictator. The operatives surrounding Joseph Stalin in 1953 turn out to be just the sort of inept, backbiting sycophants that populate Iannucci’s other comedies. What’s different about “The Death of Stalin,” beyond its sumptuous period trappings, is how well it captures the fear and paranoia that seized the Soviet Union during Stalin’s rule and threw the country into a period of uncertainty after his death.‘The Dirt’Starts streaming: March 22Even by the hard-partying, substance-abusing, hotel-trashing standards of ’80s hair-metal outfits, the members of Mötley Crüe were notoriously rambunctious, turning world tours into grotesque bacchanals that occasionally veered into the dangerous and self-destructive. Their collaborative autobiography, “The Dirt: Confessions of the World’s Most Notorious Rock Band,” is a bracing read that chases stories of shocking indulgence with sobering notes about addiction and a deadly car crash. The Netflix adaptation was directed by Jeff Tremaine, the man responsible for the “Jackass” movies, which seems like the perfect match for this material. “Bohemian Rhapsody” this is not.
ISLAMABAD — Pakistan's push to curb armed militant groups in the wake of a standoff with India that brought the nuclear-armed neighbors close to war reflected an urgent need for stability to meet growing economic challenges, Prime Minister Imran Khan said.Facing a financial crisis and heavy pressure to take on militant groups to avoid sanctions from the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), a global money laundering and terror finance watchdog, Khan said Pakistan was acting in its own interests."Everyone now knows that what is happening in Pakistan has never happened (before)," Khan told a group of foreign journalists at his office in Islamabad on Tuesday, outlining a push to bring the more than 30,000 madrasas across Pakistan under government control and rehabilitate thousands of former militants."We have decided, this country has decided, for the future of the country - forget outside pressure - we will not allow armed militias to operate," he said.The comments underline a push by Pakistan to improve its image after years of accusations that its security services have exploited militant groups as proxies against neighbors, including India and Afghanistan.Islamabad has consistently denied the accusations and said Pakistan has suffered more from militant violence than any other country, with tens of thousands of deaths and billions of dollars in economic damage over recent decades.But Khan, a former cricket star, implicitly accepted the role played by Pakistan in fostering and steering militant groups that grew out of the U.S.-backed mujahideen fighting Soviet forces in neighboring Afghanistan in the 1980s."We should never have allowed them to exist once jihad was over," he said, rejecting suggestions that he could face opposition from the powerful military and the ISI, Pakistan's main intelligence agency."Today, we have the total support of the Pakistan army and intelligence services in dismantling them," Khan said. "What use has ISI of them any more? These groups were created for the Afghan jihad."BROKEN PROMISESPakistan's critics, including India, have dismissed Khan's promises of a crackdown, saying similar pledges have been repeatedly made by previous governments only to be quietly dropped once attention shifted.They point to Pakistan's continued failure to arrest Masood Azhar, leader of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), the group which claimed responsibility for the Feb. 14 attack in Pulwama district of Indian-controlled Kashmir that killed 40 paramilitary police.Khan said Pakistan was constrained by the need to build a legal case that would stand up in court but said Azhar had been driven underground and was "ineffective" and unwell."More important than him is the set-up and that is being dismantled," he said.Although Khan insisted that the actions against militant groups were being undertaken for Pakistan's own benefits, his government, which came to power last August, faces severe economic headwinds that have made international support vital.
Long before an ordinary chicken egg became an Instagram star, Jun Endo, a Ph.D. student at Kyoto University, sat gazing intently at another egg. This egg was much smaller, roughly the size of a sesame seed, and contained a stink bug.The mystery was this: When the egg finally hatched, it would do so virtually in unison with all the other stink bug eggs clumped around it. How? What signaled an egg on one side of the brood to hatch so soon after an egg on the other side?Synchronized hatching may be common in the animal world; scientist can’t say for sure, as the phenomenon is not well studied. Sometimes bird eggs in the same clutch hatch individually, in a series that can unfold over more than a day. The broods of some stink bug species hatch over several hours. Mr. Endo’s brood belonged to the brown marmorated stink bug, Halyomorpha halys, which is known for wreaking havoc on farms and in suburban homes across the United States. Through a series of experiments, he attempted to identify the cue that got the eggs hatching. “At first I had to consider every possibility — a sound, volatile chemical, vibration and pressure,” he said in an email. It was only when he played a vibration at a specific frequency, and the eggs promptly hatched, that he knew he was on the right track. Additional experiments confirmed that the vibration — brief, barely audible and recorded from a hatching stink-bug egg — signaled other eggs to follow suit. The discovery, described in a paper in Current Biology earlier this month, resonated not only with the stink-bug researchers of the world, but also with life-science researchers focused on biotremology, the science of vibrations.“Not many people know about it, but they should,” said Peggy Hill, a behavioral ecologist at the University of Tulsa, and author of a book called “Vibrational Communication in Animals.” In recent years, scientists have paid increasing attention to the role that vibrations play in the lives of elephants, kangaroos, crickets and many other animals.“What makes it cool is that it’s something we can’t hear in the air,” Dr. Hill said. “But it’s an essential communication cue or signal.”Hatching in unison is an advantage for the marmorated stink bug, said Hideharu Numata, a biologist at Kyoto University and an author of the new study. The hatched larvae won’t eat other larvae, but they will eat the unhatched, so slowpokes risk being devoured by their new siblings. Last one out is an eaten egg.Dr. Numata has studied stink bugs for 30 years, and in that time has come to tolerate the stink. “I don’t like this smell particularly, but I feel it’s not so bad,” he said in an email. “Stink bugs sometimes smell like some fruits.”
As the mercury plunges, you could pile on extra sweaters, huddle beneath an afghan, drink hot tea — or you could get lost in a book that will transport you to sunny, sweaty places.
The brain-eating monsters are real enough — they lurk in freshwater ponds in much of the United States. Now scientists may have discovered a new way to kill them. Minuscule silver particles coated with anti-seizure drugs one day may be adapted to halt Naegleria fowleri, an exceptionally lethal microbe that invades through the sinuses and feeds on human brain tissue.The research, published in the journal Chemical Neuroscience, showed that repurposing seizure medicines and binding them to silver might kill the amoebae while sparing human cells. Scientists hope the findings will lay an early foundation for a quick cure.“Here is a nasty, often devastating infection that we don’t have great treatments for,” said Dr. Edward T. Ryan, the director of the global infectious diseases division of Massachusetts General Hospital, who was not involved in the research. “This work is clearly in the early stages, but it’s an interesting take.”Infections with brain-eating amoebae are rare but almost always deadly. Since 1962, only four of 143 known victims in the United States have survived, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. More than half of all cases have occurred in Texas and Florida, where the microscopic organisms thrive in warm pond water.“The classic case is a 10-year-old boy who goes swimming in the South in the summer and starts to get a headache a few days later,” Dr. Ryan said. The amoebae’s feeding causes meningoencephalitis — or swelling of the brain and nearby tissues — and is often misdiagnosed.“When it comes to treatment, doctors often end up throwing in the kitchen sink,” he added.Patients typically are given antimicrobial drugs in extremely high doses in order to break through the body’s protective blood-brain barrier. Many suffer severe side effects.“The biggest challenge is finding a drug that can actually reach the right region of the brain,” said Dr. Ayaz Anwar, a researcher at Sunway University in Malaysia, who led the new study. “We need a drug that can trick the body into letting it through — and we know that anti-seizure drugs can overcome that barrier.”Dr. Anwar and his team first treated the microbes with diazepam, phenobarbitone and phenytoin, three anti-seizure drugs already approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The amoebae proved sensitive. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The investigators then bound the medications to microscopic carriers: silver particles only 50 to 100 nanometers in diameter, or less than one-thousandth the width of a strand of hair.In laboratory testing, each of the three drug-silver combinations decreased the number of amoebae cells over time. Diazepam in particular was at least twice as effective when combined with silver.“It was an exciting realization, that’s for sure,” he said.
(Reuters) - Indian captain Virat Kohli stepped up his World Cup preparations with a brilliant century for Royal Challengers Bangalore in the Indian Premier League on Friday.Kohli smashed a 58-ball 100, his fifth in the IPL, to help Bangalore reach 213 for 4 from their 20 overs against Kolkata Knight Riders at Eden Gardens.Bangalore skipper Kohli showed patience at the start as he brought up his fifty in 40 deliveries but it took him only another 17 balls to reach his century. His previous four IPL hundreds all came in 2016.The 30-year-old smashed nine fours and four sixes before he fell to the final ball of the Bangalore innings.England all-rounder Moeen Ali also played a blistering knock of 66 off 28 balls, hitting six sixes and five fours to seize momentum for his team.Kolkata came close thanks to a 118-run partnership between Nitish Rana (85 not out)and Windies power-hitter Andre Russell (65) but finished on 203-5, 10 runs short of Bangalore's total. (Reporting by Hardik Vyas in Bengaluru, editing by Ed Osmond)
MUMBAI — Royal Challengers Bangalore captain Virat Kohli credited England all-rounder Moeen Ali's blistering knock of 66 off 28 deliveries for changing the game and helping deliver a 10-run win over Kolkata in the Indian Premier League.While Kohli smashed a 58-ball 100 for the India skipper's fifth IPL century that helped his team reach 213-4, it was Moeen's knock that changed the momentum and laid the platform for Bangalore's late assault against the Kolkata Knight Riders.With former South African batsman AB de Villiers missing due to illness, Kohli showed patience at the start of his innings and took 40 balls to reach his fifty.But Moeen's knock appeared to allow him the freedom to score more freely as he took just another 17 deliveries to complete his first IPL century since 2016."The wicket was doing a bit early on, length balls were very difficult to get away ... the way Mo came in and he batted, it just took momentum away from them and put it right back into our lap," Kohli said at the post-match presentation. "He changed the game completely and that allowed me to play through. I could accelerate in the end just because of the way Moeen played there."Batting at number four, the 31-year-old Moeen, who has been named in England's preliminary squad for the World Cup, dominated the 90-run stand with Kohli that gave Bangalore the momentum after a slow start.With Bangalore at 59-2 in the ninth over, the left-handed batsman came in and hit six sixes -- three of them in a 27-run over against India left-arm spinner Kuldeep Yadav -- and five fours in his knock.Bangalore, still rooted to the bottom of the IPL table after recording just their second win in nine matches, then added 64 from their last four overs as Kohli opened up."He (Moeen) said 'I am going to go now'. My job at that point of time was just to give him clarity, so I said 'go for it'," Kohli added. "He targeted the small boundary, was smart about where he hit the sixes that he hit. He changed the game completely in those two-three overs. "Moeen made my job way easier and I could accelerate in the end perfectly."Kolkata made it close, reaching 203-5 after a 118-run stand for the fifth wicket between Nitish Rana, who made an unbeaten 85, and West Indies power-hitter Andre Russell (25-ball 65), before falling to their fourth consecutive loss. Champions Chennai Super Kings lead the standings on 14 points with seven wins from their nine matches. (Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly; editing by Peter Rutherford)
(Reuters) - India all-rounder Hardik Pandya is looking to gain confidence from his match-winning performances in the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) ahead of the 50-over World Cup, the 25-year-old has said.Pandya, who missed India's limited overs home series against Australia in February and March with a lower back injury, returned for the Mumbai Indians' IPL campaign and has averaged 46.50 in eight matches so far, remaining not out four times.The 25-year-old was named in India's 15-man World Cup squad on Monday as the team's first choice all-rounder in the showpiece event in England and Wales."It's pretty important to have confidence, the World Cup is a big stage and this is the first time I'm playing," Pandya told reporters after helping Mumbai beat visitors Royal Challengers Bangalore on Monday."I was out of the game for some time... Everyone has setbacks and I wanted to improve, I got some time for my body as well. The time I spent out (of the game) is helping me right now because I'm in a good mind space."Needing 172 to beat Bangalore, Pandya walked in at 129-4 and smashed 37 not out off 16 balls to give Mumbai their fifth win of the season."For me it was important to keep hitting the ball well," he said. "I've been doing this (finishing games) for four years now. That's my role in any team I play for."It's all about playing according to the situation, if you're smart enough you will get the result you desire."Pandya said he hoped the pitches in England had not changed since their 2017 Champions Trophy campaign when India finished as runners-up. He averaged 52.50 with the bat in that tournament with a strike rate close to 200."The last time we went to England a lot of people said it would be cold with swinging conditions but when we went there... I've never played on flat wickets like that before," Pandya said."Depending on the conditions, and if we have the same situation like we did in the Champions Trophy, then it will be helpful."India begin their bid for a third World Cup title against South Africa in Southampton on June 5. (Reporting by Rohith Nair in Bengaluru; Editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Pakistan said on Tuesday that it would take new steps to seize and freeze the assets of people and militant groups who are on the United Nations’ list of designated terrorists, after months of international criticism.The announcement came as India and Pakistan were still on edge after a suicide bombing in Kashmir last month led to a military clash between the two. And last month, a financial watchdog group, the Paris-based Financial Action Task Force, said Pakistan was still not taking enough concrete steps to curb financing and money laundering by terrorist groups.Pakistan risks being blacklisted by the task force, which would open the door to international sanctions that would be devastating to the country’s already teetering economy.Pakistan’s military has long been accused by its neighbors and Western countries of cultivating militant groups to use as proxies, including the Afghan Taliban and Lashkar-e-Taiba, which was widely accused of orchestrating the 2008 Mumbai attacks that killed more than 160 people.The financial task force demanded more action in particular against Lashkar-e-Taiba and against Jaish-e-Muhammad, a militant group that claimed responsibility for the Feb. 14 bombing in Kashmir that killed 40 Indian paramilitary soldiers.“There is a total consensus across all state institutions that these religious militias of all kinds represent a liability from the 1990s, a baggage of the past,” Moeed Pirzada, an analyst and television news host who has been briefed by civilian and military officials, said in an interview on Tuesday. “They don’t serve any purpose and need to be absorbed into mainstream society through alternate job creation.”Mr. Pirzada said the main challenge was to make inroads against such groups by taking over the religious schools, hospitals and relief organizations that they operate as fronts. Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government made some budgetary allowances for those actions in December, he said.[An American cricket club carries on despite India-Pakistan tensions.]On Tuesday, Pakistani officials promised to take stronger action in the coming weeks against militant groups that operate inside Pakistani territory.Pakistan has made those promises before, including when it was put on the financial task force’s so-called gray list early last year, at the request of the Trump administration.But Pakistani officials say that there is greater urgency now, and that Mr. Khan’s administration is worried about becoming an international pariah if it fails to act. On Monday evening, Mr. Khan gave a rare background briefing to news show hosts in which he reportedly emphasized that the time had come to do more to crack down on militant groups.Pakistani officials say they plan to freeze the assets of more groups, and to take control of religious seminaries that are affiliated with them. The officials said that more travel restrictions would also be imposed on militant leaders.In an initial sign of a crackdown, the Pakistani authorities have detained 44 people, including the brother and son of Masood Azhar, the chief of Jaish-e-Muhammad. Shehryar Afridi, the state minister for interior, who announced the move during a news conference in Islamabad, did not specify any charges and said the detentions were meant for investigations.Mr. Afridi said the names of Mufti Abdur Raoof, the brother of Mr. Azhar, and Hammad Azhar, the son of Mr. Azhar, were included in a dossier that Indian authorities handed to Pakistan for investigations into the Feb. 14 Kashmir attack.Azam Suleman Khan, the interior secretary, said those detained would be freed if found innocent. “In case we don’t find any evidence against them, we will release them,” Mr. Khan said.
(Reuters) - Royal Challengers Bangalore skipper Virat Kohli said he never doubted his misfiring team's desire after guiding them to their first victory of the Indian Premier League season on Saturday.Kohli scored 67 while South African AB de Villiers remained unbeaten on 59 as their team, having lost their previous six matches, successfully chased their victory target of 174 against Kings XI Punjab."After so many setbacks the guys had desire, that's one word we spoke about," batsman Kohli said during the post-match presentation ceremony."It's a great feeling to get across the line. We've been unlucky in a couple of games. We thought 190 will be par and to restrict them to 170 was a great effort."Victory came at a cost for Kohli as the Indian skipper was fined 1.2 million Indian rupees ($17,346) for his team's slow over rate.De Villiers said the win was an important first step for the team to turn their fortunes around in an unlikely push for a playoff spot."Our first win, we've waited a long time this season for that so we're very happy. We know it's a very small step in the right direction but a very good step nonetheless," man of the match De Villiers said."We know what we have to do now and that is to win a lot of games. The next step is Mumbai Indians at the Wankhede stadium. We love playing there. We have to do the basics well again and hopefully more success is around the corner." (Reporting by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru; editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
DHAKA — Rookie swing bowler Abu Jayed earned a spot in Bangladesh's World Cup squad on Tuesday while batsman Mosaddek Hossain also made the cut for the showpiece tournament in England and Wales.Right-arm paceman Jayed, who has played five tests but has yet to debut in ODIs, was picked for his ability to swing the ball as he demonstrated in the two-test series in New Zealand."In New Zealand, we saw that he could swing the ball. His bowling can be effective in English conditions," chief selector Minhajul Abedin told reporters in Mirpur after naming the 15-member squad led by all-rounder Mashrafe Mortaza.Jayed's selection came at the expense of fellow paceman Taskin Ahmed, who missed the Zealand tour with an ankle injury."Taskin played his last ODI in October 2017 and it's been a long break for him," Minhajul said.Mosaddek, who last played for Bangladesh in the Asia Cup in September, returned as a back-up all-round option as Mahmudullah nurses a shoulder injury."We have some injury concerns for Mahmudullah. Most probably he will not be able to bowl. That's why we have considered Mosaddek as a back-up," Minhajul said."He can bowl off-spin which can be a great asset for us in an event like World Cup."Apart from Mahmudullah, the pace duo of Mustafizur Rahman and Rubel Hossain were also named in the squad despite injury concerns.Mustafizur has not fully recovered from an ankle problem, while Rubel is nursing a side strain.All-rounder Shakib Al Hasan has been named Mortaza's deputy while Mushfiqur Rahim is the wicketkeeper.Bangladesh begin their campaign against South Africa at the Oval in London on June 2.New Zealand, Australia and India have already announced their squads and others must follow suit by April 23. Injury replacements can be named until May 23.Squad: Mashrafe Mortaza (captain), Tamim Iqbal, Liton Das, Soumya Sarkar, Mushfiqur Rahim (wicketkeeper), Mahmudullah, Shakib Al Hasan (vice captain), Mohammad Mithun, Sabbir Rahaman, Mosaddek Hossain, Mohammad Saifuddin, Mehidy Hasan Miraz, Rubel Hossain, Mustafizur Rahman, Abu Jayed (Additional reporting by Rohith Nair in Bengaluru; written by Amlan Chakraborty; editing by Christian Radnedge)
MUMBAI — Veteran Dinesh Karthik pipped young Rishabh Pant to the second wicketkeeper's spot in India's World Cup squad on Monday and all-rounder Vijay Shankar also made the cut.There was not much suspense hanging over chief selector M.S.K Prasad's news conference to announce a 15-member squad led by Virat Kohli as most of the players picked themselves.With Mahendra Singh Dhoni the undisputed first-choice wicketkeeper, the selectors preferred Karthik's experience to the raw aggression of 21-year-old Pant."We felt Rishabh Pant or DK will come into the playing XI only if Mahi (Dhoni) is injured," Prasad told reporters, saying Karthik's superior keeping and reputation as a "finisher" clinched it for the 33-year-old."In crunch matches, who can be the best guy who can handle the pressure? For that reason, the decision went in favour of Dinesh Karthik. Otherwise Pant is full of talent, there'll be time for him. It's unfortunate for him that he missed out."There were also speculation about who India pick as their number four batsman and Shankar pipped Rayudu."What Vijay Shankar offers is three dimensional," Prasad said."Apart from his batting, he can bowl and he's a fantastic fielder...We are looking at him as number four. We have Dinesh Karthik and Kedar Jadhav also, so we have plenty of options at number four right now."Lokesh Rahul made the squad as a back-up opener, but could also bat at number four, Prasad said.The World Cup in England and Wales starts on May 30.Squad: Virat Kohli (captain), Rohit Sharma (vice captain), Shikhar Dhawan, Lokesh Rahul, Vijay Shankar, Mahendra Singh Dhoni(wicketkeeper), Kedar Jadhav, Dinesh Karthik, Yuzvendra Chahal, Kuldeep Yadav, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Jasprit Bumrah, Hardik Pandya, Ravindra Jadeja, Mohammed Shami (Reporting by Amlan Chakraborty in New Delhi; editing by Ken Ferris and Ed Osmond)
MUMBAI — South Africa are loaded with match-winners and, with a little bit of luck, can end their World Cup agony at this year's 50-over tournament in England, fast bowler Dale Steyn has said.South Africa's World Cup adventures have ended prematurely in unfortunate circumstances on numerous occasions earning them the 'chokers' tag at the 50-over event.Ranked fourth in ODIs, Faf du Plessis' side, however, have not lost a 50-over series in the last 12 months, winning home and away against Sri Lanka, in Australia, and at home to Pakistan and Zimbabwe.All of it convinces Steyn that the team could break their World Cup duck this time."We're going with good expectations," Steyn told reporters ahead of the Royal Challengers Bangalore's IPL match in Kolkata."If you're not going to the World Cup expecting to win, then you probably shouldn't go. But I'm not going to lie, we have some fantastic players."South Africa in the past fell foul of an unfair rain rule, paid for miscalculating the Duckworth–Lewis run-rate requirement, and suffered comical run outs to crash out of the competition.Four years ago, they fell short in a thrilling semi-final when New Zealand's Grant Elliott hit Steyn for a six off the penultimate ball of the match to seal victory.Steyn, who has taken 196 wickets in 125 ODIs, showered rich praise on fast bowler Kagiso Rabada and pinned hopes on the 23-year-old to lead South Africa's bowling attack in the future."We're led by Faf, who's been in fantastic form lately. And in the Indian Premier League, Imran Tahir has been right up there in terms of wickets," said Steyn, who is hoping to make South Africa's 15-man squad for the May 30-July 14 tournament."From Quinton de Kock all the way down to number 11, they're all match-winners. We just need to go there and hope a bit of luck - weather, a missed no-ball - goes your way, and you could win the tournament."You look at KG (Rabada), he's been bowling exceptionally well. Kagiso is a wunderkind. Just hope he continues that kind of form."South Africa open their World Cup against England at The Oval on May 30. (Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly; editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
(Reuters) - Mahendra Singh Dhoni's uncharacteristic outburst against a controversial umpiring decision led to the Chennai Super Kings captain being fined 50 percent of his match fee in Thursday night's Indian Premier League (IPL) match in Jaipur.Hailed as 'Captain Cool' during his trophy-laden years as India skipper, an unusually fired-up Dhoni stepped onto the field to remonstrate with umpire over a contentious no-ball call in a dramatic final over against Rajasthan Royals."MS Dhoni, the Chennai Super Kings captain, was fined 50 percent of his match fees for breaching the Indian Premier League's Code of Conduct during his team's match against Rajasthan Royals at Jaipur," the league said in a statement.Confusion reigned in the last over after umpire Ulhas Gandhe signalled Ben Stokes' waist-high delivery a no ball but the decision was overruled by square-leg umpire Bruce Oxenford, prompting Dhoni to enter the field and confront the umpires.The no ball was eventually deemed a legal delivery but Chennai, needing four runs off the last ball, managed to win with a last-ball six from Mitchell Santner."MS was after some clarity and it didn't seem to be coming so he took the opportunity to go out and discuss it with the umpires. The rights and wrongs will be discussed by everybody," Chennai head coach Stephen Fleming told reporters."He was certainly fired up about the way the decision was handled and why it was overturned... and he wanted to get it clarified at a key moment."Rajasthan's Jos Buttler was not sure if Dhoni did the right thing in approaching the umpires."Obviously tensions are running high in the IPL, every run counts and it was a big moment in the game," the Englishman said. "But whether stepping on to the pitch is right, no, probably not."Former England captain Michael Vaughan was more outspoken in his criticism of Dhoni."This is not a good look for the game," Vaughan tweeted. "No place at all for a captain to storm onto the pitch from the dugout."The result took league leaders Chennai to 12 points from seven games, extending their lead over second-placed Kolkata Knight Riders to four points.The IPL has continued to garner a larger audience with 345 million viewers in India tuning in over the first two weeks, a 14 percent increase from last year for the same period, broadcasters STAR Network said. (Reporting by Rohith Nair in Bengaluru; Editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
(Reuters) - All-rounder Vijay Shankar is making the most of his presence in a Sunrisers Hyderabad camp which also contains a couple of World Cup winners after being selected in India's 15-member squad for the showpiece tournament in England and Wales.The Tamil Nadu all-rounder was picked on Monday as India's number four batsman whose seam bowling expertise could also be useful in English conditions."We have a few World Cup winning team members here at Sunrisers Hyderabad and I have spoken to them to understand what it feels like to play in a World Cup and then go on to win it," Shankar said in a Hyderabad news release.The Indian Premier League (IPL) side have opening batsman David Warner and coach Tom Moody who have both won the World Cup with Australia."I have learnt a lot from them on the ways to manage pressure at such a large scale event," Shankar said. "I'm extremely elated to be in the Indian World Cup team, this is like a dream come true."Hyderabad team mate Bhuvneshwar Kumar has also been selected and the 29-year-old medium pacer, known for his ability to swing the ball both ways, hopes to thrive in English conditions."The conducive English conditions will suit my strength and I'm looking to make the most of it," Kumar said. "This is my second World Cup and now I'm pretty confident to perform at such a level."Playing for Sunrisers in the IPL has given me the right match practice just before the mega tournament."India, who won the World Cup in 1983 and 2011, begin their campaign against South Africa in Southampton on June 5. (Reporting by Rohith Nair in Bengaluru; Editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
(Reuters) - Lokesh Rahul gave India's selectors a timely reminder of his abilities with an unbeaten century for Kings XI Punjab in the Indian Premier League on Wednesday.Rahul, 26, is among a number of batsmen hopeful of securing the number four position in an otherwise settled India batting lineup ahead of the World Cup in England and Wales starting on May 30.Ahead of the squad announcement on April 15, Rahul followed up scores of 55 and 71 not out with a maiden IPL ton as Kings XI posted a total of 197 for four in 20 overs against three-times champions Mumbai Indians.Rahul, who was briefly suspended earlier this year for inappropriate comments on a television show, smashed six fours and six sixes in a 116-run stand with fellow opener Chris Gayle who scored 63.In reply, Mumbai's Kieron Pollard hit a blistering 31-ball 83 as they clinched a last-ball three-wicket victory. (Reporting by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru; Editing by Toby Davis)
(Reuters) - David Warner continued to blaze his way through the Indian Premier League with the bat but his misfield helped Kings XI Punjab to a dramatic victory over his Sunrisers Hyderabad on Monday.The aggressive opener scored 70 not out from 62 balls for the Sunrisers, confirming his strong form ahead of his expected return to the Australia team for the 50-overs World Cup in England and Wales.It was his third half century in six matches and extended his hold at the top of the IPL run-scoring table with 349 runs at an average of 87.25.He has scored a century in addition to the three half centuries, indicating there is little rust in his game despite the one-year international ban for his part in the Newlands ball-tampering scandal.The suspension ended on March 29 and the 32-year-old is all but certain to be included in Australia's squad for the May 31-July 14 World Cup when it is announced this week.While Warner batted the entire 20 overs of Hyderabad's innings, tight bowling and muggy conditions in Mohali meant he was required to work hard as he guided his side 150 for four.India opener KL Rahul's 71 not out then led the Kings XI to a six-wicket victory with a ball to spare.Hyderabad did well to force the game into a final over by taking three quick wickets for eight runs in just 12 balls, leaving Punjab needing 11 runs from the last six.Rahul and England all-rounder Sam Curran scored nine from Mohammad Nabi's first four deliveries before Rahul hit the ball to Warner at long on.Warner fumbled it then slipped over on the dewy surface as he went to retrieve it, allowing Rahul and Curran to scamper through for the victory.Punjab are third in the IPL standings with four wins from six matches, trailing Kolkata and Chennai, who have both played only five games, on net run rate. Hyderabad are fourth with three wins and three losses. (Reporting by Greg Stutchbury in Wellington; Editing by Nick Mulvenney)
MUMBAI — The English weather will play a major role during the World Cup and teams from the Indian subcontinent stand to gain if hot and dry conditions prevail during the May 30-July 14 tournament, former captain Kevin Pietersen has said.England, which last hosted the quadrennial showpiece in 1999, has witnessed more batsmen-friendly conditions in recent past with scores of 300 regularly posted in one-day internationals held in the country.A hot English summer will translate into dry pitches on which the batsmen and spinners from the subcontinent teams are expected to thrive."It is going to be weather dependent," Pietersen told reporters in Mumbai at a promotional event last week."Last year was one of the most beautiful English summers since 1976. It was the hottest summer recorded in the UK with hardly any rain at all, conditions were extremely dry."If the conditions are like they were last summer, then I think the subcontinent teams are going to have a massive role to play in the World Cup."If they are not and it's horrible and green and seaming, then it's going to play in England's favour and the team that copes best in those circumstances."While many see it as England's best chance to win their maiden 50-overs World Cup, India will also be among the favourites.Led by Virat Kohli, the two-time champions have more or less a settled batting line-up even though they continue to search for a reliable number four in the batting order.Opener Rohit Sharma agreed the English conditions could have a big say on their team selection."I think we are pretty much settled. There are a few spots which everyone know about," Rohit, Kohli's deputy in limited-overs formats, said. "It all depends on what the captain, coach and selectors think about the combination. Whether we need to go with the extra seamer, extra middle order batsman, extra opening batsman or an extra spinner. "The conditions in England will matter the most. The last time when we were there the conditions were really dry. I don't know if it will be the same again. If it is like that then we need to get an extra spinner, as simple as that. If it's not then we should probably get an extra seamer."All 10 participating teams will have to submit their 15-member squads by April 23, while injury replacements can be named until May 23. (Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly; editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Prime Minister Imran Khan of Pakistan has introduced an ambitious poverty alleviation plan that he says would help the country’s poorest gain better access to health care, education, and employment.Mr. Khan said his government would allocate 80 billion rupees — more than half a billion dollars — for an anti-poverty plan known as “Ehsas,” or Empathy, and raise it to 120 billion rupees by 2021.“No Pakistani government has spent so much money on alleviating poverty in the past,” Mr. Khan said Wednesday during a ceremony in Islamabad, the capital. “The government has launched a war against poverty.”Pakistan has an estimated population of 207.2 million people, almost a quarter of whom live below the poverty line, according to the World Bank.Fighting poverty was a central issue of his campaign when he won the general elections in July. But implementing that promise — and particularly the Ehsas plan, which is at its heart the establishment of a welfare state — will be exceptionally difficult, given the country’s economic crisis.Pakistan is facing a worsening balance-of-payments crisis and is in talks with the International Monetary Fund for a bailout package. Pakistan has also looked for financial support from China, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.The I.M.F. has said that Pakistan has low international reserves and a high fiscal and current account deficit. Talks between Pakistan and the I.M.F. have continued for months and are now at the final stages, officials said.Despite the challenges, Mr. Khan insisted that the welfare program should proceed. “I know the economic conditions are difficult,” Mr. Khan said.The program would include extensive aid so that the poor could afford health care, and would include easier loan terms for families seeking to build or buy homes. The plan also includes several economic empowerment measures for women, including savings accounts and mobile phones for an estimated 5.7 million poor women.Mr. Khan has proposed a constitutional amendment that would make basic necessities such as food, housing, education and health care a fundamental right. The amendment would require the approval of Parliament.Analysts were skeptical that much of the program could be enacted. But many praised Mr. Khan for at least focusing national attention on the country’s poverty.“In his first address to the nation, Mr. Khan surprised many critics when he spoke at length about nutrition, child protection, education and maternal and neonatal health,” said Mosharraf Zaidi, a public policy analyst. “In launching the Ehsas anti-poverty plan, he has given concrete shape to his longstanding human development ambitions.”“With an unprecedented shortfall in tax collection and a major new incoming I.M.F. program, the freedom to spend public funds on the poor will likely be even more curtailed,” Mr. Zaidi added. “How P.M. Khan manages to balance between his pro-poor instincts and the shrinking wallet available to him will be crucial to the initial success of Ehsas.”Decades before entering to office, Mr. Khan, a former cricket star who made philanthropy a central part of his public appeal, led an effort to finance and build the country’s first dedicated cancer hospital, which treats poor patients for free. In his speech on Wednesday, he pointed out that at the time of its inception, no one thought the hospital campaign could work.“If I had gone by logic, I would never have been able to complete this project,” he said, referring to the cancer hospital.
Often, when actors or directors with Oscar contenders sit down opposite your Carpetbagger, I can sense the barely concealed anxiety underneath their brave faces. There are so many year-end movies jostling for award-season attention, and it’s possible that their passion projects could get lost in the scrum.It was striking, then, when I recently met up with a relaxed and grinning John Krasinski, who’s treating the awards run of “A Quiet Place” as an unexpected victory lap. Krasinski directed and starred in the postapocalyptic horror movie about a family besieged by sound-seeking monsters, and since “A Quiet Place” was an out-of-the-gate hit last spring, “it’s nice to have the pressure off and have this be a celebration than for it to be an angsty, scary time,” Krasinski said.[Read our review of “A Quiet Place.”]In a year with many populist contenders in the mix, including “A Star is Born” and “Black Panther,” the team behind “A Quiet Place” now hopes to convert that box-office passion into award-season heat. So far, Krasinski’s wife and co-star in the film, Emily Blunt, has picked up a SAG nomination for her work, and the movie has scored top 10 mentions from organizations like the National Board of Review and American Film Institute. That means Krasinski, 39, has spent almost an entire year promoting his film, but he’s happy to overextend himself. “I do feel wiped,” he told me, “but it’s a whole different ballgame to be talking about something you love.”Here are edited excerpts from our conversation:Your first breakthrough was as an actor on “The Office,” which became a hit later into its run. By contrast, “A Quiet Place” was an overnight phenomenon. How did you experience that kind of success?“The Office” was so gradual that there was time to process it, but with “A Quiet Place,” when you’re fired out of a cannon, you don’t really know you’re in the air until you’re almost on the way down. It’s changed my life completely. It felt like this was a story I had always wanted to tell, and I didn’t even know it was lacking in my life, so there was this satiation from it that I didn’t realize I needed. When I was walking my daughter to school for the first time after we premiered at South by Southwest, I felt like, “You’re getting your full dad for the first time.”What was that first public screening like? We were driving there, and my wife said: “What do you want to worry about? Focus on one thing, because if you worry about the whole movie, you’ll drive yourself crazy.” I remembered [George] Clooney told me that they clapped at the end of [the drama he directed] “Good Night and Good Luck,” so I said, “It’d be cool if they clapped.” Of course, I chose the end of the movie, which was stupid. She said: “O.K., just focus on that. Don’t worry about what the audience does until that moment.”When Emily cocked the gun at the end of the movie, they exploded. They jumped out of their seats, they were shaking the chairs. I remember that so clearly because Emily turned to me and screamed, “Oh my God!” And very apropos, I couldn’t hear because everyone was so loud. That’s when I knew, “There’s something here.”A horror movie is not unlike a comedy in that way: If it works, people have a visceral reaction to it.It’s funny you [say that] because I really did take on this project because of some advice Greg Daniels gave me when I was working on “The Office.” He told me, “Your job is not to deliver these lines funny. Your job is just to deliver these lines. If people find it funny, that’s up to them — you just play the honesty of it.”That’s how I approached this movie, and I don’t know if I would have done this had he not given me that advice. I would have gone in thinking, “I’ve got to scare people because this is a genre film,” and it would have been horrible.The film is expected to be a strong Oscar contender in the two sound categories, which people often mix up. Since sound was such an important part of your movie, it strikes me that you might be the perfect person to explain the difference between those two categories.There’s sound mixing and editing. The editing is getting all the sounds in place, putting this sound next to that sound. Sound mixing is making sure they all come together to sound real. If crickets were as loud as the music, it would be insane: You have to diminish the crickets to whatever it’s supposed to be to feel real. That whole idea, I thought I understood until I did this movie. It can either be a tool set that will fix things, or it can be a magic kit where you blow the lid off and start concocting potions of sound. That was mind-blowing to me.
Dear Match Book,I have the privilege of leading a spirituality group for homeless women at a day shelter. As a matter of policy, we do not discuss religion — both so that nonbelievers feel welcome, and also since many believers become upset when others don’t share their particular views.To start things off each time we meet we often read a poem together. Over the years we have read Kabir, Hafiz and reams and reams of Mary Oliver. We’ve also covered Shakespeare’s Sonnet 27 and “Phenomenal Woman,” by Maya Angelou. Our selections are often nature-focused, but sometimes they address human emotions and concerns, often explicitly or implicitly about spirituality. Some are about the sacredness of silence, and all are short and beautiful.Finding appropriate poems is really tough. Can you help us out?JOAN MAXWELLWASHINGTON, D.C.Dear Joan,“Every poem is rooted in imaginative awe,” W. H. Auden said. No matter your congregants’ spiritual inclinations, the distillation of language and thought can open a path to reverence, and a few moments of peace. For some, literature is the religion. Beginning each gathering with verse offers a gesture of comfort and hope.Old SoulsYou’ve read work by poets from 14th-century Iran (Hafiz) and 15th-century India (Kabir); have you tried the work of the 13th-century Sufi mystic poet Rumi? “The Essential Rumi,” translated by Coleman Barks, includes three poems in particular (among many!) — “Two Kinds of Intelligence,” “Say I Am You” and “The Seed Market” — in which the metaphysical and the terrestrial mingle. Then, for more ancient beauty and even more brevity, try the 17th-century haikus of Matsuo Basho collected in “On Love and Barley,” translated by Lucien Stryk. The Japanese Zen Buddhist’s lines — full of cherry blossoms and “plum scent” and a cricket’s song — offer a transcendent connection to nature that spans centuries.Inside OutTwo contemporary poets who map external landscapes while navigating internal terrain may provide just what you need to spark discussion and reflection among the women in your group: “I used to pretend to believe in God. Mainly, I liked so much to talk to someone in the dark.” The first two lines of Ada Limón’s “Miracle Fish” give you a sense of the whole of her searching, vital collection, “Bright Dead Things.” There are horses and trees and birds throughout — try “Drift,” “Lies About Sea Creatures” and the startling and powerful “How to Triumph Like a Girl” — as well as plenty of space for believers and agnostics to meet.Faith surfaces frequently in “Otherwise,” the new and selected work by Jane Kenyon published in 1996, the year after she died. Many of Kenyon’s poems are attuned to seasons, in both nature and life. And most are grave and still, though in certain entries — notably “Evening Sun,” “Things” and “Let Evening Come” — movement and light flash from line to line.Double TakesIn much of Joy Harjo’s work belief takes shape as an origin story. Both “Once the World Was Perfect,” from her 2015 book, “Conflict Resolution for Holy Beings,” and “Remember,” from 1983’s “She Had Some Horses,” reveal the ties between selfhood and the wider, wild universe.
LEH, India — More than 11,000 feet above sea level, a group of 30 women spread out and got to work around an open-air ice rink.Armed with shovels, brooms made from small branches, and hockey sticks, they cleared the surface of the New Rink after an overnight snowstorm. Billowing green nets, intended to keep the sun from melting the ice, hung heavy with white powder, sagging toward the surface of the rink. The women pushed and pulled at the fabric, using their sticks to thwack the net, hoping to dislodge its frosty burden.Once the snow was cleared, it was time for the national women’s ice hockey team of India to start what the players call “camp.”For 15 days, 20 national team players and 10 hopefuls trained in Leh, a remote Himalayan town of about 31,000 in the northernmost state of India. They were preparing for the Challenge Cup of Asia tournament, which was held in Abu Dhabi this week. They dream of playing in the Olympics, but that is a long way off. The Challenge Cup, the only international competition the team has ever entered, is for countries in the lowest division of the International Ice Hockey Federation. This year India was joined by the Philippines, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. According to the federation, there are 311 female ice hockey players in India, the world’s second most-populous country, which has only five indoor rinks and a sports culture dominated by cricket and field hockey.“Even our families are like, ‘What are you doing? Get a job,’” said Diskit Angmo, a 22-year-old at the camp. “Sometimes I get frustrated, sometimes I’m like, ‘What the hell?’ But then the passion comes up.” Most of the national team players are from Leh or other parts of the Ladakh region, which is sometimes called Little Tibet. Only one player — a goalie from Mumbai — comes from a large city. The players range in age from 15 to 29, and all but two are students. Camp has been a special experience for the team, which started competing in 2016. The players were also able to train for 20 days together in Kyrgyzstan ahead of the 2017 Challenge Cup. The rink where they practice every day is another example of their sport’s growth. It is one of two that opened last year. The players were used to skating on frozen rivers and ponds. When Adam Sherlip, a former men’s coach who helped the women’s team, first came to the area in 2009, there were only three ice rinks and there was very little interest in hockey, he said. Over the last decade, he has witnessed  a transformation. Now, he said, “all people care about in winter is hockey. So many new rinks are being built every year.”There are hockey teams throughout Ladakh. The men’s national team, a mix of army and civilian players, is also based in Leh. A February tournament was organized by the police department and featured a women’s team from a school and another assembled by a local hotel. Harjinder Singh, the general secretary of the Ice Hockey Association of India, said the sport was “a magnet for youth to come together,” particularly in the winter months when all roads leading in and out of Leh are closed because of snow. There is only one way to get here: by air.At this year’s camp, the members of the women’s national team slept, ate and socialized together at a rented hostel on the outskirts of town. During their  free time between morning practice and off-ice training, the women gathered around space heaters at the hostel, braiding one another’s hair, playing cards and napping. With 10 women per room, quarters were close.Music came from their three bedrooms. One song, “The Cha Cha Shuffle,” the team first heard months earlier in Canada. The women traveled there for a hockey festival organized by Hayley Wickenheiser, a four-time Olympic gold medalist. The players rubbed shoulders with Wayne Gretzky, Connor McDavid and Jujhar Khaira, the N.H.L.’s only current player of Indian descent.
NASHVILLE — “Nothing is so beautiful as Spring,” the poet Gerard Manley Hopkins wrote, “When weeds, in wheels, shoot long and lovely and lush.” I say that poem to myself every day now because I can’t think of any place more beautiful than the American South in springtime. The flowering trees — dogwoods and redbuds and serviceberries, the crab apples and peaches and cherries — are in full glory, and the woody shrubs, cascading with blossoms, are like something out of a fairy tale: forsythia and quince and lilac and bridal veil spirea. Every time it rains here, the streets are paved with petals.But the flowers I love best are the tiny ones, so tiny they’re mostly invisible from a car window. Exquisite little flowers, most of them smaller than my pinkie fingernail, are blooming all around my house right now, and they have wonderful names: woodland violet, spring beauty, daisy fleabane, pitcher’s stitchwort, bird’s eye speedwell, yellow wood sorrel, purple dead nettle, creeping Charlie, stickywilly, dandelion and a host of others I can’t name.Most people call them weeds. Unlike Hopkins, most people don’t love them.A few of these flowers aren’t native to Tennessee, and some of the non-natives can be invasive. Those I pull up or mow under, but the others are beneficial, early-blooming wildflowers that pollinators love. Long before my actual pollinator garden is lush with cultivated flowers, the flowers I didn’t plant are blooming, an ankle-high meadow growing in the place where most Americans grow grass — or try to grow grass. Wildflower seeds are carried on the wind, on the coats of wild animals and in the digestive tracts of birds. Anybody who’s paying attention would see them for the gifts they are: flowers that arrive, through no effort at all, to feed the bees and the butterflies.But Americans generally aren’t paying attention. Too enraptured with the idea of a lawn that unrolls from the street to their very door, a carpet of green that remains green even when grass is supposed to be dormant, they see these homely little wildflowers as intruders, something to be eradicated.Maybe the whole question seems like nothing more than a matter of personal preference — I like wildflowers, and other people like grass. To each her own. That would be a fair assessment of the situation if grass grew naturally under shade trees in suburbia and if homeowners killed the unwanted plants in their yards by pulling them up or mowing them down.Neither is true. Grass requires a lot of chemicals and a lot of water to thrive. The wildflower seeds that are carried on the wind to my uncultivated yard are also carried on the wind to my neighbors’ highly cultivated grass. Instead of weeding, it’s easier to use chemicals to keep seeds from germinating, and to kill the ones that germinate anyway with more chemicals still.But let’s be clear here: “Chemical” is just another way of saying “poison.” Have you ever wandered down the yard-care aisles at a big-box store? Giant bags of fertilizer and gallon jugs of Roundup are stacked warehouse floor to warehouse ceiling, and the foul chemical stink they emit, even in sealed packages, will give you a headache if you linger long.No surprise, the chemicals that give you a headache in Home Depot are bad for the environment, too. Fertilizer runoff ends up in our waterways, causing algae blooms that starve fish and other aquatic wildlife of oxygen. Pesticides and herbicides end up there, too, but first they poison us.Last month, a federal jury ordered Monsanto, the maker of Roundup, to pay $80 million in damages to a California man with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, a form of cancer. It was the second time an American jury had found for a plaintiff with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, and Bayer, which now owns Monsanto, has once again vowed to appeal. But just last week it exhausted its appeals in France, where a court in 2012 identified glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup and similar herbicides, as the cause of the plaintiff’s neurological damage.Nature has been trying to make this point for a while now. Next time you walk around a suburban neighborhood, take a mental wildlife census of the yards you pass. What you’ll invariably find is that the pristine lawns have almost no insects living there — no bees or butterflies, no beetles, no grasshoppers or crickets, no lacewings, no spiders, no roly-polys. And where there are no insects, there are also no tree frogs, no toads, no turtles, no bats, no songbirds. A staggering 96 percent of songbirds, even those that subsist on seeds and berries as adults, rely on insects to feed their young: A growing body needs protein, and for birds the best source of protein is a bug. And birds don’t know when a bug is sick with poison.We tend to think of nature in terms of its resilience. A rat snake eats all the redbird babies, and the parents build another nest somewhere else and try again. A tree dies in the forest, and all the little woodland creatures make a feast of the insects that live in the deadwood.But just because we can’t see something doesn’t mean it isn’t happening. We hear birds singing in springtime, and we assume that all is well, despite our chemicals, despite the heat we are generating with our fossil fuels, despite the forests we are laying waste to. But we are wrong: The North American bird population is in steep decline, and the news is even worse for insects and amphibians: “Apocalypse” is the word scientists most often use to describe what’s happening to those populations.Gerard Manley Hopkins didn’t live to see the havoc wreaked by the chemicals that poison us now, but he knew something about the vulnerability of the natural world:What would the world be, once bereft Of wet and of wildness? Let them be left, O let them be left, wildness and wet; Long live the weeds and the wilderness yet.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. A portrait of the White House’s culture of dishonesty emerged from the special counsel’s 448-page report that was released Thursday.At one juncture after another, President Trump made his troubles worse, giving in to anger and grievance and lashing out in ways that turned advisers into witnesses against him. Above, the president on Thursday.Our reporters spoke with Americans across the country, many of whom agree on one thing: They are disgusted with the country’s leaders and the breakdown of functional government.What’s next? Robert Mueller, the special counsel, has been asked to testify before the House Judiciary Committee by May 23. Read our profile of the mysterious figure behind the investigation, including his weekly Friday-night ritual of dining at a dimly lit, mostly empty restaurant near his home. He usually ordered white wine and scallops._____2. In other Washington news:House Democrats issued a subpoena for the unredacted report and all of its underlying evidence, escalating a fight with the attorney general over what material Congress is entitled to see. Above, Representative Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary,  defended her statement that “countless” F.B.I. employees had lost faith in James Comey, the F.B.I. director fired by Mr. Trump. She told investigators for the special counsel last summer that it was a “slip of the tongue.”_____3. The architect who oversaw the design of the Notre-Dame cathedral’s fire safety system acknowledged that officials had miscalculated how quickly fire could spread through the cathedral.Benjamin Mouton, the architect, told The Times he was “stunned” by the speed. Fire safety experts said he should have known better.The fire alarms in the attic of Notre Dame did not immediately notify fire dispatchers. Instead, a guard at the cathedral first had to climb a steep set of stairs to the attic — a trip that would take a “fit” person six minutes to complete, Mr. Mouton said.Even a flawless response would have a built-in delay of about 20 minutes from the moment the alarm sounded until firefighters could arrive.
HOBART, Tasmania — There’s a special kind of easygoing pleasure in eating your way through Tasmania’s capital city these days, a sense that this is the exact right place and the exact right time for maximum 2019 deliciousness.The ingredients that create that impression are numerous. Hobart’s compact size makes it manageable and walkable, while its hills-cascading-into-the-river beauty makes those walks especially lovely. Its architecture, much of it constructed from hefty convict-cut stone, creates many opportunities for spaces that feel like hidy-hole secrets — small, warm rooms concealed behind hulking old facades. The invigorated arts scene, thanks mainly to the innovative Museum of Old and New Art, has inspired a thriving culture of creativity. And the still (comparatively) reasonable rents have drawn an enthusiastic group of fresh-faced chefs and restaurateurs, eager to showcase the island state’s unparalleled natural bounty.This confluence of prime dining conditions has not gone unnoticed by national and international media, and I’m almost certainly not the first person to tell you that Hobart is where it’s at. Critical darlings have been anointed, most notably Analeise Gregory, the chef at Franklin, who not only serves sea urchin roe draped around linguine with wild fennel, but also dives for the spiny beasts herself. I’ve had wonderful meals at Franklin, and at the duly lauded Templo, and delicious but slightly fraught experiences at the Agrarian Kitchen, just out of town.But the most vivid impressions — enough to jolt me out of my pleasant Hobart eating reverie and into much more interesting territory — are the meals I’ve had at Dier Makr.[Don’t miss Besha Rodell’s next column. Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter for the best of our local and global coverage.]Though the restaurant has had its fair share of attention, it is often lumped in with other exciting Hobart restaurants, the fourth or fifth spot mentioned in a pack of favorites. Still, there’s something going on in this odd little establishment that’s especially exciting.Dier Makr is buried in the belly of an imposing gray building; a small sign in the front hallway encourages that “you’re going the right way.” In an interior room you’ll find a small collection of tables, a counter that faces the kitchen and a glassed-in wine room. “Kitchen” is a bit of a misnomer: The chef, Kobi Ruzicka, and his staff cook on a collection of hot plates and small portable grills.When he opened Dier Makr in late 2016 with Sarah Fitzsimmons, a co-owner, they lacked the money for a proper kitchen. Mr. Ruzicka does not let his improvised cooking arrangement hold him back. (Ms. Fitzsimmons recently departed the business.) There’s a particular bent to Mr. Ruzicka’s culinary style, a layering of related but divergent flavors that borders on profound.During my first meal at Dier Makr, more than a year ago, I was knocked sideways by a dish that presented cauliflower in various states — puréed, in steamed florets and in lightly pickled slivers — along with raclette and hazelnuts. The pungent, gooey cheese brought out the vegetal funk of the cauliflower, each element amplifying the others. All of the good things about cauliflower were put in a new light, one so much bolder than any I’d experienced before.The fixed price for a seven-course meal was $65, which seemed incredibly cheap. The owners must have come to the same conclusion: Over the last 18 months the price went up incrementally, and is now $85.What you get for that $85 continues to thrill. A recent meal began with a shallow bowl of creamy mascarpone, topped with soft diced potatoes confited in butter. Ultrathin purple potato chips came alongside, with the instruction to treat the dish as a dip. It played out like a loaded baked potato that had been reimagined and deconstructed — familiar and comforting, but elemental and original.A decent portion of the meal is dedicated to snacking, the chips and dip followed by tiny tarts of tomatillo topped with creamy kingfish brandade, then raw carrots and radishes alongside a pool of labneh topped with an umami-rich paste made from fermented crickets and charred allium.Further into the evening, a bowl of dashi appeared, dotted with mysterious dark parcels, some of which turned out to be zucchini, others dumplings made from leek and mussels. I’d expected to be wooed by the latter, but the dumpling wrappers were a little tough and clumsy. The revelation came with the zucchini, which was so soft it collapsed in on itself and revealed a plush, luxurious quality I’d never known in zucchini before.The glassed-in wine room plays a refreshingly interactive part in your meal: Rather than refer to a list, you’re invited to peruse the room the way you would a wine shop. A waiter will accompany you and help as much as is needed, or you can take your time and rely on the tasting notes written on cards hung round each bottle’s neck. It’s not a huge collection, but it is very well chosen, showcasing the most interesting things happening in Australian winemaking alongside smaller producers from Europe.Wine has been a focus for Mr. Ruzicka and Ms. Fitzsimmons all along, and in November they opened a wine bar called Lucinda in a street-facing space in the front of the building. Lucinda’s menu is, on its face, more straightforward than Dier Makr’s, with dishes like mozzarella panzanela, or roast potatoes with gribiche. But here, too, Mr. Ruzicka finds ways to make you sit up and take notice: mustard greens dressed in an XO sauce that is boldly pungent with fermented seafood; pickled rhubarb on a cheese plate that sings with acidic personality.
BRAMPTON, Ontario — It was supposed to be a dream family vacation.An immigrant grandfather eager to set foot on African soil after an absence of 30 years.A doting mother determined to show her Canadian daughters where she came from.Two teenage girls giddy at the prospect of seeing animals on safari in Kenya.Instead, three generations of an Indian-Canadian family perished when an Ethiopian Airlines plane crashed on Sunday, killing all 157 people on board, including 18 Canadians.“I am not angry, but I am devastated. I have lost everyone,” said Manant Vaidya, 41, whose parents, sister, brother-in-law and two teenage nieces all died in the crash, which had victims from 25 countries, including Kenya, Ethiopia, China and the United States.[Read our latest coverage of the Ethiopian Airlines crash.]In Brampton, Ontario, a multicultural suburban city outside Toronto where Punjabi is the second-most spoken language after English, the tight-knit South Asian community is in shock at the deaths of Mr. Vaidya’s mother, Hansini Vaidya, 67; father, Pannagesh Vaidya, 73; sister Kosha Vaidya, 37; brother-in-law Prerit Dixit, 45; and two teenage nieces Ashka Dixit, 14, and Anushka Dixit, 13.They are mourning, Mr. Vaidya said, for a family that embodied the “Canadian dream.”Within hours of the crash, the mayor ordered that flags at city hall be lowered to half-staff to honor the family. Flags were also lowered at the girls’ schools.On Tuesday, a steady stream of neighbors and relatives dropped by the handsome house in Brampton where Mr. Vaidya and his family had lived with his parents, offering condolences and care packages of food.On Monday, Sushma Swaraj, the Indian foreign minister, called to express her condolences.The family, meanwhile, was discussing how to find hair samples or dental records of their dead relatives for DNA testing. They said they despaired at the possibility of not being to able to identify the bodies so that the family could be cremated in their native Gujarat in accordance with Hindu ritual.[Read answers to frequently asked questions about Boeing’s 737 Max 8.]“I last saw them on Saturday morning when I dropped them off at the airport,” Mr. Vaidya said.
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — Another week on the 2019 tennis circuit, another different champion.April is just about here, and no man or woman has yet managed to win more than one singles title on the main circuit this season.“That’s amazing, isn’t it?” Ashleigh Barty said after keeping the streak alive on Saturday with a 7-6 (1), 6-3 victory against Karolina Pliskova in the Miami Open final.But though Barty, an Australian, was the 14th WTA champion in 14 events, her winning a title of this magnitude bore no resemblance to a fluke.Her game is a varied thing of beauty, mate, and though at 5 feet 5 inches she is far from the most imposing player on tour, her tennis has been standing taller and taller in 2019.She was a finalist in Sydney, a quarterfinalist at the Australian Open with many of her sports-savvy compatriots piling on the pressure by tracking her every stroke. She was then the key figure in Australia’s 3-2 victory over the United States on the road in the Fed Cup.Though Elina Svitolina stopped her in the round of 16 at Indian Wells by winning the longest match of the women’s season (3 hours 12 minutes), there was no stopping Barty in Miami.There was no stopping Bob and Mike Bryan either. The twins, who have formed one of the greatest doubles teams in tennis history and will turn 41 on April 29, defended their men’s doubles title with a 7-5, 7-6 (6) victory over Wesley Koolhof and Stefanos Tsitsipas.The title came eight months after Bob Bryan underwent hip resurfacing surgery on Aug. 2, 2018. He believed then that his playing career was over, but they have now won two titles since reuniting this season. The first came at the Delray Beach Open last month, but Saturday’s victory was a step up, coming after they saved four match points in the semifinals against Lukasz Kubot and Marcelo Melo.“If you would have told me in August when I was getting surgery that I was going to defend the Miami Open title I would have said you are full of it, really,” Bob Bryan said.Barty, seeded No. 12, defeated three top-10 players: Kiki Bertens; Petra Kvitova, who had stopped her runs in Australia; and Pliskova.Already an established doubles champion, Barty will be a part of the singles top 10 for the first time on Monday, moving to No. 9 and becoming the first Australian woman to break into that group since 2013, when Samantha Stosur was at her peak.But Barty, now 22, is the undisputed leader of Australian women’s tennis at this stage, as underscored by her 6-0, 6-3 victory over the 35-year-old Stosur in the round of 32 in Miami.Her Australian roots go deeper than most: Her father, Robert, is an Indigenous Australian, a part of the Ngarigo people. She has embraced that heritage, taking on a role as a tennis ambassador in the indigenous community, joining the former champion Evonne Goolagong Cawley, who was a part of the Wiradjuri people and who won seven Grand Slam singles titles from 1971 to 1980.Barty is, in many respects, an old-school tennis talent. Her off-court demeanor is upbeat, articulate and modest. (She favors “we” and “team” more than “I” when discussing her rise.)
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Arielle Haspel, a Manhattan health coach with a sleek social media presence, wanted to open the kind of Chinese restaurant, she said, where she and her food-sensitive clients could eat. One where the lo mein wouldn’t make people feel “bloated and icky” the next day, or one where the food wasn’t “too oily” or salty, as she wrote in an Instagram post a few weeks ago.She chose a name for her new restaurant, Lucky Lee’s, that sounded stereotypically Chinese, even though she and her husband, Lee, are not Asian. She decorated the restaurant with bamboo and jade touches, and designed her logo with a chopstick-inspired font.And then, quite predictably, she was flamed on the internet for it.The uproar over Lucky Lee’s, which opened on Monday, has become the latest front in the debate over cultural appropriation and cultural arrogance, following controversies involving, among many others, Dolce & Gabbana and Miley Cyrus. In an interview on Thursday, Ms. Haspel said that she had good intentions, and that she was shocked when she was portrayed by critics on social media as the latest in a string of white restaurateurs who have promoted their Asian cuisine by labeling it as superior to food made by actual Asians.“We are so sorry,” Ms. Haspel said. “We were never trying to do something against the Chinese community. We thought we were complementing an incredibly important cuisine, in a way that would cater to people that had certain dietary requirements.”Within a day of Lucky Lee’s opening in the Union Square area, Asian-Americans castigated her on social media. Yelp temporarily disabled its listing because of an “unusual activity alert.” And a stream of food writers posted about how Ms. Haspel’s decision to brand her Chinese food as “clean” was dredging up stereotypes that were hurtful to Chinese-Americans, not to mention tone-deaf.“Ohhhh I CANNOT with Lucky Lee’s, this new ‘clean Chinese restaurant’ that some white wellness blogger just opened in New York,” MacKenzie Fegan, a food writer, said on Twitter. “Her blog talks about how ‘Chinese food is usually doused in brown sauces’ and makes your eyes puffy. Lady, what? #luckylees”This week, Ms. Haspel, 36, deleted Instagram posts that could be seen as culturally insensitive, such as the one about feeling icky after eating lo mein. She decided against using a decal that said “Wok in, Take Out” that she planned to put on the window. “We have been listening and learning, and we have been making changes and we will continue,” she said. “Shame on us for not being smarter about cultural sensitivities.”Ms. Haspel’s blog, and her food videos, promote something she calls “clean eating,” which to her, means things like: eating organic, avoiding additives and using olive oil instead of canola. “Clean eating” is not related to a particular type of cuisine. Instead, she explained in one online video, it is “all about finding a healthier alternative to your favorite indulgent food.” “I love health-ifying bad food so you can treat yourself, guilt-free,” she said in another cooking video.She tried to explain her “clean food” concept in an Instagram post earlier this week, but it didn’t stop the onslaught of criticism. Her detractors said not understanding she was being offensive was not a good excuse. They said that when she decided to open a Chinese restaurant, she had a responsibility to learn more about the culture of the food she was appropriating. 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — His country nearly went to war with a neighboring enemy six and a half times its size. Militants lurk in religious schools and in the countryside.And with inflation soaring and debt ballooning, his finance team is scrambling, desperate to secure a multibillion-dollar rescue package to avoid economic collapse.But Imran Khan, Pakistan’s prime minister, is apparently feeling confident about his first eight months in office — so much so that he invited a group of foreign journalists for an informal, hourlong chat on Tuesday in Islamabad, the capital.While he seemed subdued, with puffy circles under his eyes, Mr. Khan also sought to project resolve — particularly about ridding Pakistan of the militants it once tolerated.“We have decided, for the future of our country — forget the outside pressure — we will not allow armed militias to operate anymore,’’ he said.“The Pakistan Army created them,’’ he said, referring to the 1980s when Pakistan and the United States backed Muslim insurgents in Afghanistan against Soviet forces.But, he added, “there is no use for these groups anymore.’’Mr. Khan, 66, sat in a brightly lit drawing room on a gold-painted chair. He wore a long white shalwar kameez with the sleeves crisply pressed and spoke about corruption, poverty and trying to make peace with the Taliban.He reminisced about traveling the world as an international cricket star and expressed alarm about India’s shift toward Hindu nationalism and the rising crimes against India’s Muslims.India used to be “a very open society,’’ he said. “I never thought that I would see what is happening in India right now. Muslim-ness is being attacked.’’In August, Mr. Khan took over as the elected leader of one of the world’s most troubled countries. And he did with a shadow over him.Many observers said that the election was deeply flawed and that Mr. Khan had been secretly helped by Pakistan’s powerful military, which cleared a path for him by harassing and threatening his political opponents. In many ways, he was a curious choice.Pakistan is a conservative Muslim nation, and Mr. Khan, by contrast, was once an international playboy and celebrity athlete. He befriended notables like Princess Diana in a high-flying life that could not be more different from the lives of most Pakistanis, though in recent years he has mellowed and turned more toward Islam.In office, Mr. Khan has struggled to right the economy and get the security forces to more effectively crack down on militant groups that shelter in Pakistan.Mr. Khan promised that this new crackdown would go far deeper than previous ones criticized as cosmetic. The government, for instance, plans to send 200,000 teachers to religious schools across the country to teach secular subjects like English and math. The intention, Mr. Khan’s aides said, was to deradicalize students.
The greatest bowling scene in American literature, worth slipping on a pair of tricolor slippers to read, is almost certainly the one that opens William Kennedy’s novel “Billy Phelan’s Greatest Game” (1978).Kennedy’s prose has as much mustard on it as does one of Billy’s throws. A substantial bet has been placed. Billy bowls a strike, and it’s “not just another strike, but a titanic blast this time which sent all pins flying pitward, the cleanest of clean hits, perfection unto tidiness, bespeaking power battening on power, control escalating.”Why there isn’t more bowling writing in our fiction is a mystery. Surely the problem can’t be the game’s relatively low status. (Paul Fussell once proposed a map of the least classy places to live in America, based on ample access to bowling.) Bowling alleys seem a potent setting for drama; a playwright could set a wax-floor update of “The Iceman Cometh” on Lane 11.Elizabeth McCracken’s new novel, “Bowlaway,” is a paean to candlepin bowling, a less-whacking variant of the sport. It employs thinner pins and a ball the size of a grapefruit with no finger holes. Bowlers are given three tosses a turn, not two. The game is popular in New England. There are no candlepin alleys in New York City.With this novel McCracken has, to borrow a term from cricket, bowled a googly. “Bowlaway” is a large and caterwauling sort of opera buffa, packed with outsize characters — some with recherché talents — and wild, often dreamlike events. If this novel were a bar, it would be the kind of joint where the Christmas lights are left on all year long.This is McCracken’s third novel, and there’s been a wait for it. (She has also written two books of stories and a memoir.) Her last novel, “Niagara Falls All Over Again,” which tracks a pair of comedy partners from vaudeville to Hollywood, appeared 18 years ago.Her first, a favorite of mine, a little heartbreaker of a book written with command and magic, is titled “The Giant’s House.” It was published in 1996. It’s about a librarian and her love for a very tall, very literate boy who is dying. It’s the sort of novel, I recall writing at the time, you want to sleep with under your pillow.In the nearly two decades between her last novel and this one, there has been some tragedy in the author’s life. Her memoir, “An Exact Replica of a Figment of My Imagination” (2008), is about the child she lost, in her ninth month of pregnancy, while living in a remote part of France.Some of the sorrow in that memoir seeps over into “Bowlaway.” More than one woman in this novel has lost a child. The writing on this topic makes for close to unbearable reading.“People, women especially, are leery of mothers of dead children, or too gentle around them,” McCracken writes. “The bereaved mother is a combustible gas, the baby is a match; which one is dangerous makes no difference but best keep them apart. LuEtta couldn’t think of a way to ask that didn’t make her seem more dangerous. She saw she might never be allowed to hold anyone’s baby again.”This substrata of despondency adds ballast to a novel that sometimes seems to want to drift off, like a hot-air balloon, into an ionospheric layer of pure twinkle and whimsy.This is the sort of novel in which nearly every character has an offbeat name (Leviticus Sprague, Cracker Graham, LuEtta Mood) and can seem more like a collection of quirks than a human being. One man blinks like a circus bear and has hands as brown as paws. Another speaks “at the same rumbling pitch of the rolling balls.”A woman talks about rivers of blood if you ask her about cheese soufflés. Another compulsively takes in wild animals until one finally kills her. Yet another can remember being born. (“It was dark inside Mama.”) If someone showed up with an emotional support anteater, he or she would not seem out of place.In the manner of John Irving and Salman Rushdie and Annie Proulx in their less persuasive work, McCracken in “Bowlaway” comes close to writing caricatures instead of characters.That this ambitious novel nearly works is a testament to her considerable gifts as a novelist, her instinctive access to the most intricate threads of human thought and feeling.
For various reasons — we’re fighting colds, Times Square is stumbling through the usual post-holiday blahs, our colleagues in the Travel section just unveiled their latest sumptuous list of 52 places to visit — we’ve got globe-trotting on the mind this week. If you do too, might we recommend some short stories from Argentina? Or a new bayou murder mystery from James Lee Burke? A novel about Somali immigrants in Norway, or a collection of Ruth Prawer Jhabvala’s precise character studies of expats and emigrants? You’ll find all of those below, along with Paul Collier’s nonfiction book about retaining a sense of community in a globalized world. Closer to home, we offer a couple of food memoirs, and a natural history of the domestic biome that may have you urgently planning your next vacation to a technologically engineered cleanroom facility with a protective suit and a book. The cleanroom would be a mistake, our review makes clear. But a book is always a good idea.Gregory CowlesSenior Editor, BooksMOUTHFUL OF BIRDS: Stories, by Samanta Schweblin. Translated by Megan McDowell. (Riverhead, $26.) This collection by the Argentine writer Samanta Schweblin, among the most acclaimed Spanish-language writers of her generation, has the surrealist echoes of her contemporaries Kelly Link and Jesse Ball. “But, to me, her true ancestor could only be David Lynch; her tales are woven out of dread, doubles and confident loose ends,” our critic Parul Sehgal writes. “Her stories are obsessed with notions of purity and danger; with the ways people can be deformed, very early on, in the name of tenderness, teaching and care.”THE NEW IBERIA BLUES, by James Lee Burke. (Simon & Schuster, $27.99.) In the latest Dave Robicheaux mystery, Burke’s lawman hero contends with multiple visitors to his Louisiana bayou parish: a murderer fleeing prison; a Hollywood director returning to his roots for a movie; a woman nailed to a wooden cross that washes up from the bay. It’s brutal and chaotic, but engrossing. “Does anyone really read Burke expecting a coherent narrative? We’re hanging on for Robicheaux’s pensées,” Marilyn Stasio writes in her crime column. “We’re keeping an eye out for vivid characters. … Maybe most of all, we’re waiting for those angry outbursts when Robicheaux lets it rip.”NORTH OF DAWN, by Nuruddin Farah. (Riverhead, $27.) The war between the middle-aged Somali couple in Farah’s new novel, set in middle-class Norway, is a proxy for the global clash between fundamentalism and secularism. “In the hands of a younger, brasher novelist, we might expect high drama, but here, instead, is a nuanced, quietly devastating family soap opera,” our reviewer, Melanie Finn, writes. Farah “uses the intimate as allegory for the national. If we cannot understand why a family falls apart, then neither can we understand why a nation does — a truth those of us weary from holiday-dinner-table political arguments may appreciate.”THE FUTURE OF CAPITALISM: Facing the New Anxieties, by Paul Collier. (Harper/HarperCollins, $29.99.) Collier, who has devoted his career to the uplift of the global poor, argues that national loyalty is a firmer foundation for global justice than abstract cosmopolitanism, which too often masks unrestricted selfishness. “How does Collier intend to repair the bonds of affection in the rich democracies? ‘The Future of Capitalism’ is rife with inventive proposals,” Reihan Salam writes in his review. “Though I wouldn’t endorse Collier’s manifesto in every detail, his ‘hard centrism’ has much to offer.”AT THE END OF THE CENTURY: The Stories of Ruth Prawer Jhabvala. (Counterpoint, $26.) A posthumous collection from the novelist and screenwriter best known for her precise accounts of individuals caught between different societies, seeking to find an elusive sense of home. “Her work anticipates a world of displaced people,” Megan O’Grady notes in her review, “where, as the half-British, half-Indian narrator of one of her stories puts it, everyone is ‘moving more freely’ as ‘refugees or emigrants or just out of restless curiosity’ and where there are ‘at least two generations of people in whom several kinds of heritage are combined.’ … The stories — all of them elegantly plotted and unsentimental, with an addictive, told-over-tea quality — are largely character studies of people isolated, often tragically, by custom or self-delusion.”NEVER HOME ALONE: From Microbes to Millipedes, Camel Crickets, and Honeybees, the Natural History of Where We Live, by Rob Dunn. (Basic, $30.) Dunn has been involved in an obsessive quest to document the tiny inhabitants of indoor environments. News from the showerhead biome is just one part of this fact-filled, occasionally disgusting, slightly alarming book. “There’s a real sense of ‘gee-whiz’ in this book,” our reviewer, Robin Marantz Henig, writes, “but it’s mostly in service of Dunn’s overarching goal: to preach the preservation of biodiversity, not only in the lush forests and streams that fit our traditional image of nature’s abundance, but in the most humble places, too, where the vast majority of us will have most of our cross-species encounters — our basements, mattresses, refrigerator drawers and showerheads.”THE BREAD AND THE KNIFE: A Life in 26 Bites, by Dawn Drzal. (Arcade, $19.99.) In this alphabet of autobiographical, gastronomical essays, Drzal traces the delicate emotions packed into a scene with the precision of a miniaturist. Irina Dumitrescu reviews the book alongside two other food memoirs. “While food provides the hooks for Drzal’s memories, the collection thrums for other reasons,” Dumitrescu writes: “her moments of unflinching but forgiving self-criticism, descriptions of place that transport readers with a minimum of detail, and a knack for metaphors so perfect as to seem inevitable.”KITCHEN YARNS: Notes on Life, Love, and Food, by Ann Hood. (Norton, $24.95.) A novelist offers meditations on food and life, served with the easy intimacy of a friend. “Hood’s essays are like hot chocolate, cozy and warm,” Irina Dumitrescu writes in her review. “Her collection of meditations on food and life touches the big themes: grief for a brother and a small child gone suddenly, two divorces and the end of a grand affair. … The recipes closing each chapter hint that every heartache can be soothed by the deft application of cheese and carbohydrates.”
[For the latest updates on the Christchurch attack, read our Saturday live briefing.]• Forty-nine people were killed in shootings at two mosques in central Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday, in a terrorist attack that appeared to have been carried out by a white nationalist extremist who posted a racist manifesto online and streamed live video of the attacks on Facebook.• After visiting victims and their families Saturday afternoon, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said many of the people who died in the attacks were the breadwinners in their families, and that the government would help those who had been left without income.• A 28-year-old man from Australia was charged with murder and appeared Saturday morning in a Christchurch courtroom. Court papers identified him as Brenton Harrison Tarrant. The New Zealand police said he would face additional charges. A second man, 18, was charged with “intent to excite hostility or ill-will.”• Though officials have not released the names of those killed, a list of those missing has been published by the New Zealand Red Cross on its website. It includes people from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India, Jordan, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.[How to help the victims of the Christchurch shootings.]The attacker targeted the Al Noor Mosque in the center of the city and Linwood Mosque, about three miles away.The country’s police commissioner, Mike Bush, said at a Friday evening news conference that 41 people had been killed at Al Noor Mosque and seven at Linwood Mosque, and that another victim had died at Christchurch Hospital.David Meates, the chief executive of the Canterbury District Health Board, said that 48 people, including young children, were treated for injuries at the hospital. Mr. Bush said Saturday morning that two of the victims were in critical condition.The police said Friday that three men and one woman had been taken into custody, but Mr. Bush lowered the total number to three on Saturday morning, indicating that someone had been released.Ms. Ardern said none of those detained had been on security watch lists.Mr. Bush had earlier urged people not to go to mosques anywhere in New Zealand on Friday. He also urged mosques nationally to “close your doors until you hear from us again.”In a Christchurch courtroom hearing closed to the public for security reasons, police officers in bulletproof vests brought in the suspect, Brenton Harrison Tarrant. The police said he had been charged with one count of murder but would face additional charges. Mr. Tarrant, 28, short with thinning brown hair, handcuffed and wearing white prison clothing, looked around the courtroom but said nothing as District Court Judge Paul Kellar ordered him held for a further hearing on April 5.Regional officials have said Mr. Tarrant is an Australian citizen. Court papers listed his New Zealand address as Dunedin City, which is about 280 miles south of Christchurch.Richard Peters, his court-appointed lawyer, said Mr. Tarrant had indicated he might represent himself in the prosecution. Asked how Mr. Tarrant had reacted to what he is facing, Mr. Peters said, “He seemed to be quite aware of where he is and what he’s doing.”
WELLINGTON, New Zealand — At least 49 people were killed at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday, in a horrific and methodical afternoon slaughter, part of which was broadcast live on the internet after the publication of a white supremacist manifesto online.The massacre, which Jacinda Ardern, New Zealand’s prime minister, condemned as a terrorist attack and called “an extraordinary and unprecedented act of violence,” interrupted a day of prayer for a small immigrant community in the nation’s third-largest city and shook a country with little history of mass shooting.Harrowing first-person footage, apparently from a camera worn by a gunman as he attacked the Al Noor Mosque in the center of the city, was streamed on Facebook — a grim milestone in the evolution of terrorism that raised questions about how tech companies can block extremists from using social media to spread hate and inspire violence.[Follow our live briefing here.]Facebook said it quickly shut down the account, but a 17-minute video showing a man dressed in black shooting at fleeing worshipers and into piles of bodies with a semiautomatic rifle circulated widely online. In addition to those killed, at least 48 people were being treated for gunshot wounds, including young children, the authorities said.The police said a man in his late 20s was arrested and charged with murder but declined to identify him. The police also said they seized several weapons and found two explosive devices on a vehicle.“This is and will be one of New Zealand’s darkest days,” Ms. Ardern said at a news conference.Schools in the downtown area were locked down for hours after the attacks as the police tried to determine whether the gunman acted alone. The authorities urged residents to stay indoors, asked mosques to close and cleared nearby Cathedral Square, where people had gathered as part of worldwide protests to demand action on climate change.New Zealand’s police commissioner, Mike Bush, said three other individuals found near the scene with weapons were also taken into custody, though investigators later said that one probably had nothing to do with the attacks.The shootings were first reported at about 1:40 p.m., around the time of the midday Friday prayer, when the Al Noor Mosque and the Linwood Mosque, about three miles east, would be most busy. The manifesto had appeared online minutes earlier.The document named both mosques, and links to it were posted on Twitter and 8chan, an online forum known for hosting message boards with extremist right-wing discussions. The 8chan post included a link to what appeared to be the gunman’s Facebook page, where he said he would soon broadcast live video of the attack.But it was not immediately clear whether the name on the page was that of the suspect, and the authorities declined to comment.Ms. Ardern said that many of the victims were most likely migrants to New Zealand or refugees.“Christchurch was the home of these victims,” she said. “For many this may not have been the place they were born. For many, New Zealand was their choice, the place that they chose to come to and committed themselves to, the place they chose to raise their families.”She added that New Zealand was likely targeted “because we represent diversity, kindness, compassion, a home for those who share our values, refuge for those who need it.”
Sam Shepard’s wild West just got a lot scarier.I’m talking about that shadowy, shifting desertscape occupied so disharmoniously by the two brothers of Shepard’s 1980 masterwork, “True West,” which has been given a ripping revival by James Macdonald at the American Airlines Theater. As embodied by a brilliant Ethan Hawke, in full-menace mode, and a tightly wired Paul Dano, everyday sibling rivalry has seldom felt this ominous.[Read more about Paul Dano, and his reflections on acting and directing.]It’s not that you worry that one’s going to kill the other, in the time-honored tradition of Cain and Abel, although that looms as a possibility. What’s really threatening in this Roundabout Theater Company production, which opened on Thursday night, is its creeping, gut-knotting insistence that family is no fortress against a darkness that erases all sense of a separate self.On the contrary. When it comes to getting lost in the gloaming of existential nothingness, there’s no place like home.Anyone who knows the work of Shepard, who died in 2017, will be familiar with this discomfiting perspective. “A Lie of the Mind,” the name of his 1985 portrait of a family in fission, could well be an umbrella title for the series of domestic dramas that preceded it, including his Pulitzer Prize-winning “Buried Child” (1978). (Footnote: Mr. Hawke has Shepard cred, having appeared in the 1995 Steppenwolf revival of “Buried Child” in Chicago and directed a first-rate “Lie of the Mind” in New York in 2010.)Written during a decade-long explosion of creativity, these plays present a tragicomic vision of the American family that, for my money, puts him in the exalted company of Eugene O’Neill. “True West” — first seen in New York in a misbegotten, miscast production at the Public Theater nearly four decades ago — hasn’t always received the solemn respect accorded the others.It is usually thought of as an occasion for Method men — including John Malkovich and Gary Sinise (in 1982) and Philip Seymour Hoffman and John C. Reilly (who memorably switched roles in rotation in 2000) — to get down and dirty and tear up the scenery. Mr. Hawke and Mr. Dano do all that, especially in the boisterous second act.But Mr. Macdonald — a British director who has expertly interpreted the apocalyptic visions of Caryl Churchill (“Escaped Alone” and “A Number,” which happened to star Shepard) — is a master at building suspense from seemingly banal elements. And for the first half of his “True West,” he imbues the most prosaic details with mounting tension worthy of Hitchcock.[What’s new onstage and off: Sign up for our Theater Update newsletter.]Here’s the setup: Austin (Mr. Dano), a screenwriter in his early 30s, is taking time away from his family to work at the Southern California home of his mother, who is vacationing in Alaska. (She shows up late in the play, in the pricelessly bewildered form of Marylouise Burke.) To his politely concealed dismay, he is joined by a surprise guest: big brother Lee (Mr. Hawke), a scruffy black sheep whom Austin hasn’t seen in five years.As rendered in Mimi Lien’s set, Mom’s place (in full view of the audience before the show begins) is a sunny slice of California cheesiness, with a garden gnome, flourishing potted plants and a clear view of the house next door. Nothing to be scared of here.Then the play proper starts, in thick darkness, with the repeated crash of guitar chords and a blitz of bright lights that define the proscenium frame, an effect repeated between the succeeding scenes. Gradually, two figures emerge. (Jane Cox did the superb, insinuating lighting.) One of them is Austin, crisply pressed, bespectacled, seated at a typewriter.Then there’s the bulky, tall guy by the sink. He looks like trouble — maybe a burglar who would happily pull a knife on you if cornered. To say that he is Austin’s brother does not contradict this impression. In Mr. Shepard’s universe, home invader and next of kin can easily be one in the same.Accept the satisfying shivers the moment provokes, sit back and get ready to enjoy the most perfectly distilled 50 minutes or so of classic Shepard you’re ever likely to see. What happens in the play’s first act is, on one level, routine family friction, with the attendant laundry list of grievances about who got the better deal growing up.
NEW DELHI — It was an inauspicious moment for a military the United States is banking on to help keep an expanding China in check.An Indian Air Force pilot found himself in a dogfight last week with a warplane from the Pakistani Air Force, and ended up a prisoner behind enemy lines for a brief time.The pilot made it home in one piece, however bruised and shaken, but the plane, an aging Soviet-era MiG-21, was less lucky.[Read about how tensions have affected an American cricket team with players from both countries.] The aerial clash, the first by the South Asian rivals in nearly five decades, was a rare test for the Indian military — and it left observers a bit dumbfounded. While the challenges faced by the India’s armed forces are no secret, its loss of a plane last week to a country whose military is about half the size and receives a quarter of the funding was still telling.India’s armed forces are in alarming shape.If intense warfare broke out tomorrow, India could supply its troops with only 10 days of ammunition, according to government estimates. And 68 percent of the army’s equipment is so old, it is officially considered “vintage.”“Our troops lack modern equipment, but they have to conduct 21st-century military operations,” said Gaurav Gogoi, a lawmaker and member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defense.American officials tasked with strengthening the alliance talk about their mission with frustration: a swollen bureaucracy makes arms sales and joint training exercises cumbersome; Indian forces are vastly underfunded; and the country’s navy, army and air force tend to compete rather than work together.Whatever the problems, the United States is determined to make the country a key ally in the coming years to hedge against China’s growing regional ambition.Last year, when Defense Secretary Jim Mattis announced that the Pentagon was renaming its Pacific Command — to Indo-Pacific — he emphasized India’s importance in a shifting world order.“It is our primary combatant command,” said Mr. Mattis, who left the Pentagon at the end of the year. “It’s standing watch and intimately engaged with over half of the earth’s surface and its diverse populations, from Hollywood to Bollywood.”The American military began prioritizing its alliance with India as its close relationship with Pakistan soured over the last two decades. United States officials are concerned that Pakistan is not doing enough to fight terrorism, a charge the country denies.In just a decade, United States arms sales to India have gone from nearly zero to $15 billion. But Pakistan can still draw on a powerful American-supplied arsenal.[To follow the growing hostilities between India and Pakistan, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]
Once perceived as health-conscious people by some, and very, very picky eaters by others, vegans are trending.The Economist declared 2019 as the year of the vegan, reporting that a quarter of millennials identify as vegan or vegetarian. Outspoken celebrities like Beyoncé and Jay-Z are encouraging fans to become vegan, if not for ethical reasons, then because of health and environmental benefits. In a 2018 report, the vegan food industry recorded 20 percent growth over the previous year, with sales peaking at $3.3 billion.This demand for all things vegan has made other industries take notice, especially beauty.“Beauty follows food because we use a lot of the same ingredients,” said Tata Harper, the founder of a namesake natural beauty brand that’s predominantly vegan. “If they’re good to ingest, then they’re typically great to apply topically.”Sunny Subramanian has been waiting for this moment since she introduced her Vegan Beauty Review site in 2007. An animal lover in Portland, Ore., Ms. Subramanian made the decision to go vegan 19 years ago. She cut meat, dairy and eggs from her diet; she stopped wearing leather, silk and wool. But with beauty, she was confronted with a problem: She couldn’t find any information online about vegan beauty brands. So she did something about it.“When I first started, it was crickets — I was the only vegan beauty blog,” Ms. Subramanian said. “Back in the day, we made up such a teeny-tiny percentage of the population.”There’s a lot of confusing jargon around vegan beauty — “cruelty-free” is one example, with many people assuming that they’re one and the same.Plain and simple, vegan beauty means the absence of animal ingredients, while cruelty-free refers to a product that doesn’t test on animals. In other words, it’s possible for a vegan item to have been tested on an animal and a cruelty-free product to contain animal ingredients.Adding to the confusion is the lack of Food and Drug Administration guidelines. A handful of organizations have rolled out insignia to signal whether a product is vegan or cruelty-free, the most distinguished being the Leaping Bunny Program, which grants certification to personal care and household product companies that ensure that no animal testing is done at any phase of the production process.“A finished product could say it’s cruelty-free, but that’s not good enough,” said Dennis Gross, a dermatologist and dermatologic surgeon whose skin-care line is certified by the Leaping Bunny Program. “Most animal testing occurs on the ingredient level, so with the Leaping Bunny Program, you’re 100 percent certain that no animal testing occurs in the laboratory.” PETA’s Beauty Without Bunnies Program lists every registered company that is either cruelty-free or both vegan and cruelty-free, and has corresponding logos to match. In Britain, the Vegan Society charity, the oldest vegan society in the world, has registered thousands of brands that are both vegan and cruelty-free.“It’s easy to pick a food item and decide if it’s vegan or not, but it’s more difficult with beauty,” said Dominika Piasecka, the media and public relations officer of the Vegan Society. “There’s a huge need for it to be labeled.”Common animal-derived ingredients found in beauty products include honey, beeswax, lanolin (wool grease), squalene (shark liver oil), carmine (crushed-up beetles), gelatin (cow or pig bones, tendons or ligaments), allantoin (cow urine), ambergris (whale vomit) and placenta (sheep organs). While they’re harmless, they’re not better for you, either, though the thought of smearing on the animal parts found in moisturizers, cosmetics and shampoos may be a deterrent.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. New Zealand prepares for funeral services, Deutsche Bank’s ties to President Trump come under greater scrutiny and Afghanistan receives a rare bit of good news. Here’s the latest: As victims’ families prepare for funeral services in Christchurch, we take a look at their stories.Among those killed at the two mosques were students, engineers, a dairy farmer, a new father and an aspiring pilot. Some were born in New Zealand and others had moved there.Today: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is expected to return to Christchurch. A day earlier, she delivered an impassioned speech to Parliament, saying she would do everything she could to deny the gunman attention.“He is a terrorist. He is a criminal. He is an extremist,” she said. “But he will, when I speak, be nameless.”Egg Boy: A teenager who shot to worldwide fame after smashing an egg on the head of an Australian far-right politician said that “a majority of the money” raised for him would go toward the victims of the shooting. (A GoFundMe page asked for money to cover legal fees and buy “more eggs.”)Go deeper: The suspect cited a racist conspiracy theory in his online manifesto. We explain what “the replacement theory” is and how it caught on among white supremacists.Before Mr. Trump was elected, the German bank gave him more than $2 billion in loans to finance skyscrapers and other high-end properties, despite pushback from some at the bank.For Deutsche Bank, Mr. Trump’s projects helped fund its investment-banking unit and his celebrity was used to lure more clients.Now, as investigators in New York and Washington scrutinize their financial ties, we examined their long and, at times, troubled bond.How we know: Deutsche Bank officials have said that the lending was the work of a single, obscure division. But interviews with more than 20 current and former executives and board members contradict that narrative. Read four takeaways from our investigation.Response: A Deutsche Bank spokeswoman said the company was “committed to cooperating with authorized investigations.” The White House referred questions to the Trump Organization, which declined to comment. The head of the country’s Olympic Committee, Tsunekazu Takeda, said he would resign at the end of his term in June amid a French corruption investigation into the bidding process for next year’s Summer Games.
PROVIDENCE, R.I. — I did it. I found a significantly accomplished, defensibly qualified Democratic officeholder who isn’t flirting with — and hasn’t fantasized about — a presidential run in 2020. I had to take the train to Rhode Island, where we talked over pizza and eggplant parmigiana. We drank wine, too. It helps these days.Her name is Gina Raimondo. She’s the governor of this state. She just began her second term after being re-elected by a margin of more than 15 percentage points, and you would think that this commanding victory plus her youth (she’s 47), her working-class background, her educational pedigree (Harvard, Rhodes scholar, Yale Law), her role as the chairwoman of the Democratic Governors Association and her situation far from the nation’s swampy and unpopular capital would start chatter about a move there. But no. Crickets.The most obvious reason? Her relationship to the Democratic Party of the moment. Both stylistically and substantively, she’s out of sync with it.[Go beyond the headlines and behind the curtain with Frank Bruni’s candid reflections on politics, culture, higher education and more every week. Sign up for his newsletter.]She can’t tweet worth a damn and the same goes for Instagram. She winces at talk of a top marginal tax rate of 70 percent and cringes at the growing use of “corporatist” as a slur against Democratic politicians deemed too cozy with business interests. She thinks that big companies often need to be prodded forcefully to do right by their employees, but that it’s bad policy and bad politics to paint them as the enemy.She recalled an exchange with college students not long ago. One of them said: “I get who you are. You’re one of those spineless centrists.” “And I was like, ‘Excuse me?’,” she said. “It takes a lot of spine to be a centrist in America today. You get whacked from the left and whacked from the right. That’s my life. I get whacked.”Moderate Democrats have certainly had their day and their sway. In fact the passions of the left arise in part from how much compromise there has been — and here we are stuck with Donald Trump. The rage of less moderate Democrats like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is earned and righteous. And Raimondo said precisely that to me.But Ocasio-Cortez is by no means the whole of the Democratic Party. And is the leftward lurch that she personifies the best and safest bet for 2020? I worry, because there’s no political priority higher than limiting Trump to one term. Raimondo also worries — a lot.“So many Democrats just assume we’re going to win,” she said. “They underestimate how hard it’s going to be.” And it might be a serious tactical mistake, she added, to nominate any candidate who seems to be at war with capitalism itself or entertains the idea of a guaranteed minimum income.“We have become the party that is anti-business,” she told me. “We need to be the party of work.”She acknowledged that “the system we have today is totally broken.” She cited grotesque income inequality. She noted that too many Americans have no economic security and no prospects for achieving it.“But I fall in the camp of: Let’s fix it,” she said. “Let’s embrace business to come to the table. Someone needs to make the case that it’s in the best interest of businesses and wealthy people to be better corporate citizens. Pay for health care. Help people get their college degree. Pay for job training.”Along those lines, she recently proposed that companies doing business in Rhode Island be taxed up to $1,500 annually for every employee who is enrolled in Medicaid because he or she can’t get health insurance through a company-sponsored plan. “I hope that they’re embarrassed,” she said.But, she added, “Where I think we are at risk is if all we do is beat up and crap on businesses.”
NEW DELHI — Prime Minister Imran Khan of Pakistan announced on Thursday that his country would be releasing a captured pilot from India after days of military conflict, offering a way out of the crisis and seeking to position Pakistan as the cooler head in a confrontation that has put the world on edge.“In our desire of peace, I announce that tomorrow, and as a first step to open negotiations, Pakistan will be releasing the Indian Air Force officer in our custody,” Mr. Khan said.After hours of relative lull throughout Thursday, the gesture appeared to be a face-saving opening for both countries to head off a war. But Indian officials were guarded, saying that the pilot’s release would not necessarily end the crisis, which they said was rooted in Pakistan’s support of terrorist groups that strike at India.The days before had brought both nations to the brink. On Tuesday, Indian warplanes dropped bombs inside Pakistan — it is not clear what they hit — and Pakistan shot down at least one Indian fighter jet on Wednesday. Tens of thousands of troops have been rushed to the countries’ border, heavy artillery barrages and gunfire have been volleyed across it, and tank columns have been chugging into place for what many feared could turn into a full-blown war.Both nations wield nuclear weapons, and China, the United States, Britain and many other countries have been urging them to step away from conflict, which began after a suicide bomber killed more than 40 Indian paramilitary troops in the disputed region of Kashmir on Feb. 14. India accuses Pakistan of aiding in the attack, which was claimed by the terrorist group Jaish-e-Mohammed, but Pakistan has denied it.At a news conference after his summit meeting in Vietnam on Thursday, President Trump said that there was “reasonably decent” news coming from India and Pakistan and “hopefully it’s going to be coming to an end.”From the beginning of the showdown, Pakistan’s military publicity wing has demonstrated a knack for dominating the narrative. In particular, the almost immediate official circulation of videos that appeared to show the Indian pilot being first protected from a mob by Pakistani forces, and then remarking on how well he was being treated (“The tea is fantastic!” he said in one clip), became a virally blooming propaganda coup on social media.But on Thursday, Indian officials insisted that was part of the problem — and made a point of noting that displaying prisoners for propaganda purposes violates the Geneva Conventions.They suggested that Mr. Khan’s move was an empty ploy that ignored the real problem between the two countries. A senior Indian official told reporters in New Delhi that even if the captured pilot were returned home, there would be no chance “to go back to zero” and ease tensions unless Pakistan acted against terrorist groups that it has traditionally used as proxies against India.Some observers said that much of the Indian public — and particularly among Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s conservative Hindu political base — had little appetite to take Mr. Khan up on his second offer of the day: to engage in direct talks with Mr. Modi in order to defuse the crisis.“Over the decades there’s been a real exhaustion and fatigue with Pakistan, and any Indian right now is fed up with Pakistan’s lack of action against terror,” said Alyssa Ayres, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “Indians feel Pakistan is not genuine in its calls for dialogue.”Pakistan has, however, been better about wielding its public information campaigns.For instance, when India for the first time in almost 50 years sent fighter jets into Pakistani airspace to launch airstrikes, it was Pakistan that took to social media first.Hours before any comment from India, a Pakistani military officer tweeted that Indian warplanes had bombed an empty forest and the officer posted photographs showing some craters in the dirt. Later, India claimed to have destroyed a terrorist training camp, but had no evidence to show for it.On Wednesday, after reports started surfacing online that Pakistan had shot down an Indian fighter jet and captured the pilot, Indian officials denied it. Hours later, they said during a stiff news conference that lasted less than 100 seconds that one Indian pilot was “missing in action.”
LAHORE, Pakistan — I am a self-hating yoga practitioner. I used to wonder: If I don’t like yoga, why do I do it? I pretend to do it only for health benefits. I really just do it for savasana. For those who haven’t practiced yoga: Toward the end of the class you are asked to lie down and stay still, the lights are usually turned down, and you are supposed to do nothing, think nothing. Savasana is the opposite of activity.Doing nothing is my favorite thing in life. I believe in the ancient practice of doing nothing. I believe that this planet is doomed because we so believe in doing things that now the world’s most recognized dictum is “Just do it.” But how can you think nothing? Especially when you’re told to think nothing?In yoga, after you have elevated your heart above your head in Downward Dog and after you have reared your head like a cobra many times over, you are finally allowed to let your shoulders sag and your body go, and to set your mind free. My mind is too afraid of thinking nothing, so it usually goes into overdrive.Before I knew the literal meaning of savasana, I used to send my mind on anxiety hunts. A therapist once told me that one way to deal with your anxieties is to chase them, to hunt them down. “Think what’s making you anxious,” she said, “and think of the absolute worst that can happen, multiply it by 10, and then you’ll realize that the present isn’t that bad after all.”The yoga instructor says, “Breathe into your pose.” Sometimes I forget to breathe because I am busy making lists. Like a list of my random anxieties. The traffic outside is terrible; will I find parking outside Haji Stores? Those brown eggs they sell — are they really organic or just free range? Breathe. I can hear people breathing around me. They’ve probably cleared their heads, slain all their anxieties, and I’m wondering if I’ll get any likes for that random half-clever thing I tweeted before the class.I do journalism in three languages, so my capacity for distractions is threefold. While I am going through the shopping list — milk, brown bread, cigarettes and what’s that thing I’m forgetting? — I am also prepping for my little boy’s dinner and thinking about how much flour to add to the soup. Last night, it was too thin; the night before that, too thick. How not to burn the chicken nugget? My son ostensibly is a yoga baby. He was conceived right after my wife started yoga. I have been told off by my wife for thinking of yoga as a competitive sport, but sometimes yoga instructors remind me of the drill sergeants of my youth. Drill sergeants trapped in poets’ bodies. They talk a lot about the soul. But maybe they have a soul and I don’t. And how can I harness something I don’t have?Halfway through my years of yoga distractions, I searched online for the word “savasana.” And that changed yoga for me: Savasana means “corpse pose.”When I moved to a new class, my new teacher said: “Don’t worry. It’s your first week, you’ll get better at it.” I was so smug in my knowledge that I’ll never be good enough that I didn’t tell her I had been doing yoga for three years. In the previous class, I had occasionally heard, “Well done, Hanif.” I always wanted to say: That 20-year-old girl who does the bridge like a bridge and becomes a tree when she does a tree, that’s good. I am just a recipient of your good yogi intentions. I am just a corpse with lists.“Breathe into the pain,” the yoga teacher says, and I think of other corpses that I have seen in recent years.I had a musician friend once who found out that he was about to die and he started writing poetry. Did everyone say that he was good because they knew that he was dying? I knew he was always good at poetry. He used to have a book on yoga but never practiced it.Inhale. Hold. Exhale.Another friend died. He wasn’t a poet or a singer. But he was very funny. And sometimes not funny at all. I miss him more because he didn’t leave any poetry behind. He probably would have approved of my doing yoga, and then made fun of me and told me there is no such thing as free-range chicken.And another friend died. She was funny, fierce and tender. She made a life out of being that. She never had time for yoga. Only street cricket. I console myself by thinking that all of them are in an eternal savasana without any lists.
LONDON — In theory at least, we understand the words on the sports radio we hear incessantly — in taxis, at the fish and chips place, at the corner newsstand. But we are foreigners here and the stories are inscrutable, full of happenings from cricket ovals and rugby pitches.Our sports focus is confined to our darkened living room, where my 7-year-old son, Leo, and I have lately been absorbing improbable happenings from the other side of the Atlantic — one exhilarating victory after another for our suddenly mighty Brooklyn Nets.This has become our early-morning ritual. Wife and daughter still asleep, the boys watch the action from the night before, the scores carefully hidden from our N.B.A. League Pass app lest we ruin the ending.We are basketball expatriates, two steps removed from the initial source of my N.B.A. obsession by a change of team loyalties and a move to London.In our North London surroundings, we may as well be rooting for a badminton team from Bhutan. While the odd LeBron James jersey can be spotted, our Brooklyn Nets gear seemingly fades into the sea of Yankees caps brought home by tourists returning from New York (oblivious to the hate they are inspiring from this Mets fan) and the endless Brooklyn-related mumbo jumbo that now adorns T-shirts worldwide.[Nets’ Run to the Playoffs Hits a Snag With Spencer Dinwiddie Injury]While N.F.L. gear is a common sighting, owing to the constant staging of American football games here, N.B.A. basketball is largely invisible. One imagines this was unaltered by the recent showdown of two of the league’s most dreadful teams, the Knicks and the Washington Wizards, inside London’s unlovable O2 arena. (We did not attend, just as we do not take leisure trips to see the dentist.)Our sports-related conversations with Britons tend to revolve around the astronomical ticket prices required to see Arsenal, the English Premier League soccer team Leo has decided that we love forever. Our Nets fandom is like membership in a secret society, whose disclosure would mark us as eccentric and produce puzzlement.Even my Knick fan friends back in New York do not want to hear about the Nets via email. My only real communion comes via obscure Nets-related podcasts I listen to while washing the dishes. When Bill Simmons and Zach Lowe devoted perhaps 3 minutes of a recent pod to the Nets surge, I confess to feelings of pride and validation I can only liken to a U.F.O. conspiracy theorist hearing that the government is probing the sighting of a flying saucer.My embrace of the Nets began seven years ago when the Knicks — the only team I had ever rooted for — shunned a gift from the basketball gods by letting Jeremy Lin leave town. It was the final indignity after years of atrocious basketball. I dumped my Knicks season tickets and adopted the fledgling club whose arena had just risen over my Brooklyn neighborhood.I did not do so lightly. As a born-and-bred New Yorker, I saw abandoning a team as a serious breach of the tribal code. I disdained fans from other cities who rooted for two teams in the same sport. I was unremittingly harsh to the worst transgressor of all: the bandwagon fan. (If that Steph Curry jersey you own was the first Warriors gear in your closet, yes, I’m talking about you.)But I was hopping on no bandwagon. With the exception of a pair of distant trips to the N.B.A. finals, the New Jersey-turned-Brooklyn Nets were a pathetic franchise. I was living in Brooklyn. My father had grown up in Queens and traveled on a streetcar to watch the Dodgers at Ebbets Field. I was not abandoning my tribe. I was returning to it.This is what I told myself as I began reading about the odd collection of players I was now rooting for, trying to divine the narrative that would make it real. I fought through a sense of exile in the slick, new Barclays Center, which was full of fans for whom the game itself appeared peripheral to the cool Brooklyn food, the dancing during timeouts, and whatever fascinating things were happening on their phones.Yes, it was a gorgeous arena with excellent sightlines and welcoming staff. The season tickets I bought the day the Knicks said goodbye to J-Lin put me in seats that were a 10-minute walk from my house in Prospect Heights. Madison Square Garden was a cramped dump reached via a creaking subway and a walk through the bowels of Penn Station.Yet there was something about the Garden, even as the Dolan era yielded a lost decade of basketball. The crowd understood. Hustle plays drew appreciation in an arena that had revered Charles Oakley. The energy was electric.
Fred Thompson, who founded a Brooklyn track club for girls and young women in 1963 and coached national and Olympic medalists as he championed the cause of female track-and-field athletes for a half-century, died on Tuesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 85.Lorna Forde, a former track star for Mr. Thompson, said the cause was complications of Alzheimer’s disease.A lawyer and former New York State assistant attorney general, Mr. Thompson founded the Atoms Track Club of Brooklyn in a Bedford-Stuyvesant community center, mostly out of frustration with New York City public schools that, for budgetary and other reasons, limited the participation of girls, but not necessarily of boys, in physical education and high school sports.Mr. Thompson was also the founding organizer of the annual Colgate Women’s Games, the nation’s largest amateur track series for women. Since 1974, the games, open to girls and women from elementary school through college (and with a competitive division for women over 30), have attracted thousands of participants, mostly from East Coast states, to various venues from Boston to Virginia.A former track star at Boys High School in Brooklyn and the City College of New York, Mr. Thompson inspired remarkable loyalty in his Atoms, which often had 40 to 50 members. Most were runners, some as young as 9, but most were teenagers who regarded him as a counselor, friend and father figure. He paid nearly all the expenses of the club, which was independent of schools or sponsors.Early on, the Atoms practiced in community center hallways or in locked schoolyards (by scaling fences at twilight). But he eventually found a home for the club at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn.His coaching combined sophisticated training techniques with one-on-one skull sessions. And beyond coaching, he demanded good grades and personal responsibility from his athletes.“The Atoms doesn’t really stand for track,” he told The New York Times in 1978. “The Atoms stands for excellence in education, trying to better yourself in this society, and one way to do that is to go to college and get that piece of paper.”For many Atoms, the club was a refuge from broken homes and lives of poverty, as well as a path to education and upward mobility. In time, despite financial and logistical obstacles and a lack of the public support that flows readily to football, basketball and baseball, the club became a symbol of inner-city success as its runners won regional, national and finally Olympic recognition.Its stars included Cheryl Toussaint-Eason, a silver medalist at the 1972 Munich Olympics in the 1,600-meter relay and a gold medalist at the Pan American Games; Diane Dixon, who won Olympic gold in Los Angeles in 1984 in the 400-meter relay and was an 11-time national indoor champion; and Grace Jackson-Small, the silver medalist in the 200-meter sprint at the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. Mr. Thompson was an assistant coach of the United States track team in Seoul.Many of the Atoms’ victories could not be clocked by stopwatches. In its first 15 years, the club produced 50 college graduates, a remarkable record given the economic status of their families. They became teachers, lawyers, nurses, psychologists, entrepreneurs — and mothers. “One’s a doctor now, and another runs a study program in a state college,” Mr. Thompson told The Times in 1979.“But we’ve lost some, too,” he added. “We had a little girl we called Cricket who still holds the 100-yard dash record for 12- and 13-year-olds. But the streets got her. She stopped coming to practice. Another girl, a shot-putter named Diane, they found her dead from an overdose of drugs. I made all my girls go to her funeral. It wasn’t easy. They were crying. They took it hard. But I thought it was something they should see.”The coach often sounded like a father, although he was a bachelor and had no children. “I’ve always been single,” he told the Times sportswriter Gerald Eskenazi in 1985. “I came close to getting married twice. I miss not having a kid. People say, ‘You have many kids,’ but it’s not the same.”Frederick Delano Thompson was born in Brooklyn on May 21, 1933. When he was 5, his parents, Hector Joseph Thompson and Evelyn Cethas, split up, and Fred and his brother, John, were sent to live with an aunt, Ira Johnson, who had a deep influence on the boys.“Life is two things,” Mr. Thompson recalled her saying. “One, get an education, because once you have a college diploma nobody can take that away from you. And two, get involved with people.”
When Indra Nooyi stepped down as chief executive of PepsiCo last year, she was replaced by a man — and the ranks of female C.E.O.s further dwindled. Today, fewer than 5 percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 are led by women. Ms. Nooyi’s absence will be particularly notable. During her 12 years running Pepsi, she increased the company’s top-line revenues while expanding its offerings to include healthier foods. At the same time, she fended off activist investors calling for higher short-term profits. Her tenure was not without controversy, though. Health advocates pushed the company to reduce the amount of salt, sugar and fat in its products. Pepsi was accused of deceptive marketing practices. And Ms. Nooyi was among the business leaders who stepped down from presidential advisory councils after President Trump’s response to the violence in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017. Though the White House reportedly considered Ms. Nooyi to be World Bank president, she did not wind up with the job. Instead, she will be teaching at West Point, and recently joined the board of Amazon. This interview, which was condensed and edited for clarity, was conducted in New York. You joined the board of Amazon just after its about-face on building a new headquarters in New York. What happened? New York was making an investment in Amazon in the short term to get many years of benefits. It’s very hard to explain the many years of benefits. People just worry about what short-term investment you’re giving. It was a big loss for New York.Philosophically, where do you stand on this?It’s a competitive environment. Every state is competing for those jobs. So it becomes a race between the states, each one putting up the right incentives to get the companies. I’m not sure the companies themselves are demanding it. I think they just said, “We want another headquarters,” and there’s a feeding frenzy from all the states.Should companies really participate in this race to the bottom and pit states against one another? If companies don’t get the incentives, the shareholders are going to say, “Why didn’t you get the incentives?” I’ve heard that before. “Did you get the incentives from the state? Did you get the maximum tax reductions from the state?” The shareholder community expects it from you.What was your childhood like? I grew up in Madras, which is now Chennai. We never lacked for anything, but we didn’t have much. It was a good, conservative Brahmin family, deeply steeped in learning and education. That was the only focus. The expectation was you would get, at a minimum, a master’s degree. If you got a Ph.D., you’re better off. We were the ultimate nerds. The only difference was, in my case, I decided to be a nerd in some ways and branch out in other ways. I played cricket. I climbed trees. I played the guitar. I did all those wild and wacky things.What was it like for you when you arrived in the U.S. to attend the Yale School of Management?I got dropped off in New Haven and had nobody to help me. They didn’t have support systems for international students. They gave you a map and said: “Go register for classes here. Go do this there.” I was a vegetarian, so I didn’t know what to eat. I needed curds for every meal, but I didn’t know where to get them. Then somebody said: “It’s the same as yogurt. Go get yogurt.” The first few weeks were very tough. But little by little, the international students banded together, because we were all miserable without any support systems. Pretty soon, we were having a wonderful time. 
Welcome to Crossing the Border, a limited-run weekly newsletter from The New York Times. Like what you see? Send this to a friend. If someone forwarded it to you, sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox.By Manny Fernandez in Donna, Tex.It’s springtime on the border, and that means the winter season is winding down — the months when tens of thousands of retirees from Minnesota, South Dakota, Illinois and other parts of the Midwest adopt South Texas as their home away from home.Retirees in swimsuits ride their bicycles to the pool, bright noodles tucked under their arms like jousting lances. They line the streets for golf-cart parades. They venture into Mexico, shopping for cheap medicine, getting pedicures, undergoing low-cost dental work and sipping goblet-sized margaritas.They are known as Winter Texans, and they concentrate mainly in the Rio Grande Valley, the temperate region deep in South Texas that is also the place where the largest number of migrants has been crossing lately from Central America — President Trump has declared a national emergency along the border and stationed Army troops to help control the escalating influx. One of their base camps was a quarter-mile from where seniors at the Victoria Palms resort in Donna deploy by the dozens to occupy five pickleball courts.The annual invasion of Midwesterners — and a number of Canadians — has decreased in recent years, but they remain an economic and cultural force. An estimated 106,000 Winter Texans spent about $528 million in the valley in the 2017-18 winter season, according to a survey by the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley. Tex-Mex restaurants fly welcome banners for them. There are Winter Texan newspapers, age-qualified RV parks, expos, cruises, theater productions and bumper stickers — one pickup truck in the border city of McAllen had two: “Iowa Winter Texan” and “I’m retired. Go around.”“It gets me out of the snowbanks,” said Dean Miller, 58, a resident of Detroit Lakes, Minn., who spends the winter living and working at the Winter Ranch resort in Alamo. “You’ll go to some event down here and you’ll find your neighbor from back home.”The majority of Winter Texans are white and in their early 70s. Many of them voted for Mr. Trump in 2016, and their very presence this winter quietly subverted the president’s assertion that the border is in crisis. They have been coming to the region for years — in some cases, their parents were Winter Texans, too — and the political dynamics and national-emergency rhetoric has no effect on how, or where, they spend their retirement.“We don’t see what you see on TV,” said Terry Goss, the general manager of Victoria Palms, one of the largest Winter Texan communities, with up to 2,500 retirees.What do Winter Texans see, exactly?A slice of border life that looks nothing like what many Americans think of as border life. There was Nathan’s fourth annual Sock Hop at Ranchero Village in Weslaco one Friday. There were fish frys and riverboat tours, line dancing and karaoke sessions, bluegrass acoustic jams and nondenominational church services. At the Winter Ranch resort in Alamo one Monday afternoon, the Winter Ranch Players packed the house with three one-act plays, “The Ethel and Albert Comedies.” At Victoria Palms, Mr. Goss spoke standing next to a poster listing all the sold-out shows at the resort’s ballroom, one of them a Rolling Stones tribute band concert. Victoria Palms is so popular with Canadians that a Victoria Palms reunion is scheduled most summers near Toronto.Margaret Hitzemann, 63, who normally lives in Onamia, Minn., spent the past two months in a townhouse in Port Aransas, near Corpus Christi. One rainy afternoon, she and her husband visited the Mexican tourist town of Nuevo Progreso. They bought crispy chapulines — crickets, a fried delicacy — and went into a pharmacy to buy some cheap medicine.“We don’t take a lot of meds, so we were thinking, ‘Oh, let’s go down and get some cheap Tylenol and Advil and that kind of thing,’” Ms. Hitzemann said. “I was like, ‘Oh my gosh, this isn’t any cheaper than Walmart.’ So we ended up not buying any medications.”In a region with a large Latino population and tolerant attitudes toward immigration — many people have family members on both sides of the border — culture clash with the Northerners is inevitable. The study released by the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley included unedited messages from Winter Texans to local officials, and some of the sharpest comments read: “Be more American, less Mexican. This is not Mexico!” and “Have channel 5 respect Mr. Trump” and “Keep the grass cut, the trash picked up and speak English.”Already, the exodus back north has started. The end of the season for many comes on Thursday, with the annual Winter Texan appreciation day in Nuevo Progreso.
The wounded tried to crawl away or lie still, while others ran or crouched behind the dead, but the gunman kept pulling the trigger.He shot fleeing women and girls, and pumped bullet after bullet into piles of motionless men and boys in a house of worship.The man accused of carrying out the worst mass murder in New Zealand’s modern history, one that left 49 people dead and more than 40 others wounded at two mosques in Christchurch, was identified in court documents on Saturday as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28. The suspect, who officials said is an Australian citizen, was charged with one count of murder, and more were expected to come.Three other people were detained by the police, though one was released hours later. An 18-year-old local man was charged with “intent to excite hostility or ill-will,” but court officials would not elaborate.The horror was designed specifically for an era that has married social media and racism — a massacre apparently motivated by white extremist hatred, streamed live on Facebook and calculated to go viral.The shooting represented a staggering corruption of a form of communication, used innocently by millions, that promised to draw people together but has also helped pry them apart into warring camps. It also shattered a veneer of civility and security in one of the safest and most highly developed countries in the world.A man at the door to Al Noor mosque on Deans Avenue called out “hello, brother,” just before the approaching killer opened fire with a semiautomatic shotgun. Seconds later, a wounded man, trying to crawl away, was shot again at point-blank range.Within moments, terror and chaos gripped the people gathered at the mosque for Friday Prayer, as they ran, screamed and tried to climb the walls around the building. Parents tried to shield their children, others ducked behind or under parked cars, and at least one nearby resident opened her home to shelter people fleeing the mayhem.The Facebook video, shot from the killer’s helmet-mounted camera, and a 74-page statement that the authorities said was written by the gunman, point to an array of possible role models, from racist mass murderers to Oswald Mosley, the 20th century British fascist.Standard white supremacist and far-right nationalist tropes, like fears of a “white genocide,” are sprinkled throughout the statement. There are also elements of a self-flattering reach for larger meaning: references to centuries-ago battles between Christians and Muslims are scrawled on his guns, and on the video he refers to his slaughter of unarmed people as “the firefight.”But the potential clues in the statement appeared to be as much an exercise in misdirection, provocation and “trolling” as a statement of any ideology, making it hard to separate belief from inside jokes among extremists, deliberate baiting and pointless hate.New safeguards developed by tech companies over the last 18 months were not enough to stop the video and statement from being widely posted, on Facebook, YouTube, Twitter and Instagram. While Facebook and Twitter took down pages thought to be linked to the gunman, the posted content was spread rapidly through other accounts. Some people appeared to be using techniques to evade automated systems that find and delete content.President Trump on Friday described the attack as “a horrible disgraceful thing, horrible act.” But when asked if he saw white nationalism as a rising threat around the world, he said: “I don’t really. I think it’s a small group of people that have very, very serious problems, I guess.”Many Western leaders denounced the attack as an act of terrorism, and made a point of stating their support for Muslims.“Through terror attacks that have taken place on U.K. soil we know only too well the pain that such horrifying attacks can cause,” Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain said. “As New Zealand has stood by us so we stand shoulder to shoulder with them, and with Muslims in New Zealand, here in the U.K. and around the world.”
Every Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the week’s most notable new songs and videos — and anything else that strikes them as intriguing. Just want the music? Listen to the Playlist on Spotify here (or find our profile: nytimes). Like what you hear? Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes.com and sign up for our Louder newsletter, a once-a-week blast of our pop music coverage.After a six-year gap, Vampire Weekend has re-emerged with a song that wraps misgivings in three-chord elation: first with folksy acoustic-guitar picking, then with gospel-rock piano and congas, later with jammy hints of the Grateful Dead. It all feels jovial until Ezra Koenig’s words register a not-so-oblique dread: “Anybody with a worried mind could never forgive the sight/Of wicked snakes inside a place you thought was dignified/I don’t wanna live like this, but I don’t wanna die.” Meanwhile, anyone seeking meditative sanctuary can click on “120 Minutes of Harmony Hall Guitar” — the opening acoustic guitars simply looping away, adding a modest drone for the second hour. JON PARELESThe lyrics are cryptic, and so is the video, with images of armed men, surveillance screens, captive women and lessons in violence. But there’s no mistaking the urgency of Sam Fender’s desperate vocal, the rising refrain “He will play God” and the syncopated, reverberating guitar note that persists throughout the song, keeping things tense. PARELESFresh from boygenius, her collaboration with Julien Baker and Lucy Dacus, Phoebe Bridgers has teamed up with Conor Oberst (Bright Eyes) as Better Oblivion Community Center, suddenly releasing a full album. It’s folk rock all the way, harking back to the Byrds, Bob Dylan and Ian and Sylvia, with shared lead vocals, intertwined acoustic and electric guitars and, often, a tambourine shaking along. Electric guitars surge and spill over in “Dylan Thomas,” as Bridgers and Oberst sing about power, entertainment and the elusiveness of truth. PARELESFor this movie theme, Dua Lipa honors the plot of “Alita: Battle Angel,” a film based on a post-apocalyptic manga about a human brain resurrected as a cyborg warrior: “This is not a swan song,” she sings, “It’s a new life.” But she also ties it in to the female self-assertion of the rest of her catalog: “I won’t stay quiet,” she sings, her voice swelling, “ ’Cause staying silent’s the same as dying.” Backup chants sound like remnants of past civilizations; the beat is mechanized, cybernetic. The song puts human aspiration in electronic armor. PARELESYes, that Snow. “Con Calma” underscores the endless cycles of borrowing that nourish pop music, messy and unlikely as they may be. In 1992, “Informer,” by the white, Canadian dancehall performer Snow, spent seven weeks atop the Billboard Hot 100. This was an outlier for many reasons, some less obvious than others — Snow had cut his musical teeth in Toronto’s Jamaican community. Over the years, “Informer” has remained, despite occasional mockery, the rare durable, credible example of a song by a white reggae performer. Now, in 2019, reggaeton titan Daddy Yankee, well into the neutralized-pop portion of his career, has built atop it a new song, which is enthusiastic and lighthearted, squeezing something just a little bit too tepid out of something which, in its day, had been the little-bit-too-tepid thing. JON CARAMANICAAgonized and serrated, the new song from Call Me Karizma revives mid-to-late-2000s Warped Tour electro-punk, blends it with emo instincts as refracted through SoundCloud rap, adds in heaping gobs of Marilyn Manson, and tops it off with, hiding in plain sight, a flicker of Yung Joc’s “It’s Goin’ Down.” CARAMANICA“Ecstasy” is an anti-manifesto from Sneaks, the singer, songwriter and producer Eva Moolchan. “I don’t wanna explain,” she whisper-sings, almost as if she’s humming to herself. But meanwhile she’s assembling blips, plinks, a buzzing bass riff, hovering electronic tones and casually intersecting vocal lines into a teasingly enticing track: she’s doing, not telling. PARELESFlorence and the Machine almost — but not entirely — separate two threads of her music with a yin-yang pair of new songs. “Moderation” goes for a hand-clapping, room-shaking Motown-flavored rock-soul stomp — think Martha and the Vandellas — as Florence Welch scoffs at the whole notion of moderation in love. “Haunted House” turns inward instead. It starts and ends something like a parlor song, a piano waltz sung by Welch at her most decorous. But when the chorus arrives and she confesses “I’m not free yet,” she doesn’t hold back the buildup; moderation is, indeed, a struggle. PARELESAs a collaborator and on her own, Julia Michaels has typecast herself as the queen of neurosis, and she’s true to that brand throughout her latest EP, “Inner Monologue Part 1.” In “Happy,” she sings, “Sometimes I think I kill relationships for art,” and adds, “I pay my bills with it.” A reggae-ish beat heaves and slams below her and a backup chorus joins her in her misery, but at the end, as she quietly moans “I just want to be happy,” there are crickets in the mix. PARELESA tsk-tsk masquerading as a chest puff, J. Cole’s “Middle Child” is the beginning of what he’s suggested is a coming onslaught of new music this year. The themes, however, are familiar: Cole’s love-em-but-needle-em relationship with younger rappers is present in full force. But unlike most elders, he’s also willing to paint himself as a student — hence, middle child. Which is why even though this song echoes mid-2010s Drake triumphalism (and also mentions Drake, for good measure), Cole cuts the arrogance with commitment to granular, almost mundane narrative. All tell, no show. CARAMANICAThe saxophonist, flutist and bass clarinetist Eric Dolphy led just five studio sessions in his brief lifetime, yet he’s seen as one of jazz history’s great possibility-expanders — an improviser who squirreled away his masterful abilities under layers of evocative idiosyncrasy, packing his notes with more breath than they could fit, letting them bloom and quiver well beyond their natural pitch. Dolphy’s second-to-last recording session took place in New York in July 1963, with a midsize band, across two days, less than a year before his death at 36. It resulted in a pair of well-reputed albums, “Conversations” and “Iron Man,” but many assumed the complete session recordings were lost. The flutist James Newton — who had held onto a trove of tapes and papers that Dolphy left behind — recently turned them over to Resonance Records, which released 18 of the finest tracks from those 1963 dates on “Musical Prophet: The Expanded 1963 New York Studio Sessions.” Half were previously unissued, including this alternate take of “Jitterbug Waltz,” a Fats Waller classic with a frisky, twirling melody that’s oddly befitting of Dolphy. And mark the trumpeter: It’s the future jazz eminence Woody Shaw, age 18, sounding phenomenal in one of his first professional recording dates. GIOVANNI RUSSONELLOLast year’s most awe-inspiring jazz release was “Emanon,” Wayne Shorter’s three-disc masterstroke, much of which he recorded live with his quartet joined by the London Chamber Orchestra. But unless you shelled out for the full boxed set, you probably haven’t heard it yet. Now the digital wait is over — on Friday, Blue Note released the album on streaming platforms. On “Prometheus Unbound,” we hear how skillfully Shorter marshals a string section; he uses the orchestra not only to add strength and harmonic layers, but also to give his wide, intervallic leaps a new dynamic momentum. RUSSONELLOHearing “Trio Tapestry,” the first album from this all-star group, it’s hard not to think back on Joe Lovano’s work in the Paul Motian Trio, another bass-free combo whose history was entwined with ECM Records. Like Motian’s, the new trio’s music drifts slowly into the space around it, gently filling a room with worried air. But the biggest difference between the bands is in the tumbling, unsettled piano of Marilyn Crispell and the warmer, more diatonic guitar of Bill Frisell (the third member of Motian’s trio). On “Rare Beauty,” Lovano’s trio treats his sharp modal melody with a sense of unfettered freedom, moving loosely in and out of step with each other. RUSSONELLOQue Vola brings together three Afro-Cuban percussionists — all members of the Osain del Monte Orchestra — and seven French jazz musicians. The lead single from the group’s self-titled debut is “Calle Luz,” a quick, pattering original that reshapes a rumba rhythm around its jagged, four-horn arrangement. The West African roots of rumba come through in various ways here; amid all the rhythmic and harmonic complexity, you might even hear echoes of Fela Kuti’s Africa ’70 band in the sound of the Rhodes, bass and drums. RUSSONELLO
ATLANTA — In 2000, the last time this city hosted the Super Bowl, the St. Louis Rams beat the Tennessee Titans, and Watershed had been frying its famous fried chicken in lard and sweet butter flavored with country ham for only a year.The new Southern food movement that the restaurant in nearby Decatur helped define had not yet moved North. Brooklynites weren’t worshiping biscuits, and American barbecue had not met kimchi. Only a few cooks or writers outside the South were giving serious thought to the connection between Southern food and that of West Africa.Even here, in the booming cultural and commercial center of the American South, diners had only begun to embrace a style of cooking that emphasized seasonality and history over carbohydrates and caricature. Atlanta’s most popular restaurants were local chains dipped in the glitzy, corporate sheen of the Buckhead neighborhood, and high-end steakhouses like Ruth’s Chris and Morton’s were abundant.Now, as the city prepares to show off its new $1.5 billion Mercedes-Benz Stadium on Sunday, when the New England Patriots meet the Los Angeles Rams, Atlanta is a more evolved food town than it was then.Neighborhood beer bars and slick suburban dining rooms alike serve food that shows off Southern agriculture. Food from the region’s vast immigrant population is as celebrated as its local classics.Although diners remain loyal to local entrepreneurs like Fifth Group Restaurants, which started opening reliable spots like South City Kitchen in the 1990s, the city is less impressed by carpetbagging chains. And the ranks of talented young cooks tired of trying to compete in bigger cities continue to grow.Still, Atlanta has yet to find its footing among the nation’s great restaurant cities. Wyatt Williams, who recently quit reviewing restaurants for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, wrote in a parting column this month in Atlanta magazine that the dining scene was in a rut, riding an economic boom that has spawned cynical, money-grabbing restaurants “where the rooms are finely appointed, the menus are deeply predictable, and the cooking is barely passable.”Stephen Satterfield, a former sommelier in San Francisco who founded the food magazine Whetstone, grew up in Atlanta. During a recent trip home, he described Atlanta as an insecure food town, obsessed with how it measures up against cities with outsize culinary reputations.“It pains me to say it, but here everyone is well-intentioned and there is plenty of capital and resources, so I don’t understand why there aren’t more places that feel of the moment,” he said.Plenty of Atlanta chefs and diners would disagree, albeit politely. The trick, they advise visitors, is drilling down into the right parts of town.“You’ve got to get out of downtown,” said the chef Kevin Gillespie, a former Top Chef contestant who has three restaurants here. “Get in your Uber and go to a neighborhood. That’s where you’ll find the great stuff. You’re going to leave the city with a completely different idea of what Atlanta really is.”Of all the local chefs scrambling to be part of the Super Bowl, Mr. Gillespie is the M.V.P. He runs Gamechanger, a concession inside the Mercedes-Benz Stadium, where his “closed on Sunday” chicken sandwich — a homage to the faith-based policy that keeps Chick-fil-A restaurants shuttered on Sundays, even Super Bowl Sundays — has helped make it the highest-grossing food vendor in the arena.He is also one of three chefs whom Arthur Blank, a founder of Home Depot who bought the Atlanta Falcons in 2002, approved to cook on Thursday for the N.F.L. owners’ dinner, a traditional meal usually held at a fancy restaurant or a well-appointed home. Mr. Blank is staging the dinner at the National Center for Civil and Human Rights, not far from the stadium.“It talks to the history of the city and the great connection the N.F.L. has made with the players around issues surrounding social justice,” Mr. Blank said. “We’ve moved from protest to progress.”(Some critics have complained that all three chefs are white men, though Aaron Jefferson, a general manager from the restaurant Iberian Pig who is African-American, was later added to oversee cocktails and wine.)
W. S. Merwin, a formidable American poet who for more than 60 years labored under a formidable poetic yoke: the imperative of using language — an inescapably concrete presence on the printed page — to conjure absence, silence and nothingness, died on Friday at his home near Haiku-Pauwela, Hawaii. He was 91.His death was confirmed by a spokeswoman for his publisher, Copper Canyon Press.Mr. Merwin was one of the most highly decorated poets in the nation, and very likely the world. He was the United States poet laureate from 2010 to 2011; won two Pulitzer Prizes, a National Book Award and a spate of other honors; and was lauded for his volumes of prose and translations of poetry from a Babel of languages.He was also one of the most prolific poets of his generation, his work appearing often in The New Yorker, The Atlantic Monthly, Harper’s Magazine and elsewhere. After the release of his first collection, when he was in his mid-20s, he went on to publish nearly three dozen volumes of poetry, along with essays, short fiction, memoirs and translations of Dante, Pablo Neruda, Osip Mandelstam and other poets.In later years Mr. Merwin was equally known for his work as a conservationist — in particular for his painstaking restoration of depleted flora, including hundreds of species of palm, on the remote former pineapple plantation in Hawaii where he made his home. He had lived there, in blissful near-solitude, since the 1970s, refusing to answer the telephone.Mr. Merwin’s ardor for the natural world took frequent root in his poetry. But while for many poets nature begets odes, for him it was far more likely to inspire elegies. In “For a Coming Extinction,” part of his acclaimed 1967 verse collection, “The Lice,” he wrote:Stylistically, Mr. Merwin’s mature work was known for metrical promiscuity; stark, sometimes epigrammatic language; and the frequent use of enjambment — the poetic device in which a phrase breaks over two consecutive lines, without intervening punctuation.“It is as though the voice filters up to the reader like echoes from a very deep well, and yet it strikes his ear with a raw energy,” the poet and critic Laurence Lieberman wrote, discussing “The Lice,” a collection whose bitter contents were widely understood as a denunciation of the Vietnam War. He added:“The poems must be read very slowly, since most of their uncanny power is hidden in overtones that must be listened for in silences between lines, and still stranger silences within lines.”The themes that preoccupied Mr. Merwin most keenly were those that haunt nearly every poet: the earth, the sea and their myriad creatures; the cycle of the seasons; myth and spirituality (he was a practicing Buddhist); personal history and memory; and, above all, life and its damnable evanescence.Yet there was about his work an intensity of purpose — heightened by a formal style not quite like anyone else’s — that, his champions maintained, gave it a fervor often described as oracular. A “post-Presbyterian Zen poet and channeler of ancient paradoxes,” The Los Angeles Times called him in 2007.In “Leviathan,” from his 1956 collection, “Green With Beasts,” Mr. Merwin evokes the epic verse of old through his strategic use of alliteration, the central organizing principle of Anglo-Saxon and Old Norse poetry:Some critics indicted Mr. Merwin’s later work for trafficking in a level of abstraction bordering on the obscure. It was rendered even less accessible, they complained, by the fact that by the late 1960s he had jettisoned punctuation almost entirely. (Mr. Merwin had his reasons, which spoke to the very heart of his lifelong poetic program.)But most reviewers praised his relentless deployment of poetry as a talisman against the void; the emotional ferocity beneath the cool, polished surface of his lines; and his use of language so pure and immediate that it could attain translucence.“The intentions of Merwin’s poetry are as broad as the biosphere yet as intimate as a whisper,” Peter Davison, the longtime poetry editor of The Atlantic, wrote there in 1997. “He conveys in the sweet simplicity of grounded language a sense of the self where it belongs, floating between heaven, earth and underground.”
DUBLIN — Ireland's state-funded sport coordination body suspended future funding to the Football Association of Ireland (FAI) on Tuesday after the football body acknowledged that it failed to comply with its grant approval terms.Sport Ireland, which has been demanding answers from the FAI over a 100,000 euro (£86,451) short-term loan provided to it by former chief executive John Delaney, said the acknowledgement was made in a written statement the FAI was due to deliver to a parliamentary committee on Wednesday.Delaney, who was moved to a new role of executive vice-president at the FAI shortly after details of the loan were first reported, is due to appear before the committee with other officials on Wednesday to answer questions over a story that has made frontpage news in Ireland in the last month.In the FAI's statement to the committee, a copy of which was seen by Reuters, chairman Donal Conway said circumstances arose in April 2017 -- when it received the loan -- that were not related to Sport Ireland in line with grant approval conditions.The FAI said last month that the loan was needed due to short-term cash flow issues and that it was repaid in full two months later. Sport Ireland, however, said it was never notified about any deterioration in finances, as the FAI would have been obliged to do. "The Board of Sport Ireland will consider the reinstatement of funding once all ongoing reports commissioned by the FAI have been completed and the recommendations adopted," it said in a statement, referring to reviews the FAI has commissioned from audit firm Mazars and accountant Grant Thornton.The FAI, which generated a retained surplus of 2.8 million euros on revenues of 49 million in 2017, its last set of published reports, receives annual funding of 2.7 million euros from the state. It has already drawn down half of it for 2019.The FAI said it was unfortunate Sport Ireland felt compelled to suspend the funding, which was crucial to the development of Irish soccer."The Association is keen to restore trust and confidence and rebuild the relationship with Sport Ireland as soon as possible," FAI chairman Conway said in a statement.Lawmakers due to quiz the FAI on Wednesday welcomed the suspension and said they would also seek answers about the decision to move Delaney to another position in the association."It's a damning indictment that such shoddy financial and corporate governance practices were permitted. Hopefully this is the start of a real change," Noel Rock, a member of the governing Fine Gael party, said on Twitter. (Reporting by Padraic Halpin; Editing by Hugh Lawson and Toby Davis)
(Reuters) - Brazil's female footballers have made great strides in growing their domestic game but they lack the organisation to emulate the United States team and demand the same pay and conditions as men, defender Erika told Reuters on Tuesday.The Brazilian Football Confederation (CBF) this year obliged all first division clubs to create a women's side and are funding them directly, officials said.But their income is still vastly inferior to their male counterparts and Erika said she is envious of the World Cup-winning U.S. squad, 28 of whom sued the U.S. Soccer Federation last month in a lawsuit that includes complaints about wages and working conditions."I think it is sensational what the U.S. players did," she said in a phone interview from Spain, the day after Brazil lost 1-0 to Scotland in a friendly, their ninth consecutive defeat."We have the strength to do the same in Brazil but we don't have courage or the (people) to guide us."The U.S. women are a gigantic force. They have won a lot and that makes it easier for them to fight for what they want. We need to be united but we haven't managed that."Erika blamed that lack of unity on geography. Most of the Brazilian women play their club football outside the country and get together only for international games, which makes organising more difficult."I think distance is a problem," the 31-year-old Corinthians defender said. "The principal players are based outside the country and that makes it more complicated, if they were all able to be here it would make it easier to develop, and we'd be stronger. "Sadly, we still think individually."The Brazilian players nevertheless looked at recent big crowds for women's matches in Spain and Italy – a world record 60,739 people turned out to see Atletico Madrid take on Barcelona last month - as indicative of the growing power of the female game.Women's football has gained a higher profile this year in Brazil, with the CBF paying to help women's teams compete in the 16-team first division and also setting up a second division and under-18 league. "Without a doubt here has been a huge growth and there is a long way to go," Erika said. "I want to see the kind of crowds we saw in Madrid in Brazil. It inspires us."Brazil are one of 24 teams who will take part in the Women's World Cup in France from June 7-July 7. (Reporting by Andrew Downie; Editing by Christian Radnedge)
MANCHESTER, England — Not once, no matter how bad the temptation or how high the stakes or how deep his frustration, has Pep Guardiola done what he is supposed to do. He has not called Liverpool lucky, or hinted at a conspiracy among referees in awarding penalties at Anfield, or questioned whether his chief rival had the resolve to stay the course.Instead, Guardiola, the Manchester City manager, has been unremittingly, unapologetically positive. Liverpool and its manager, Jürgen Klopp, kept him awake at night, he said earlier this season. He has called Klopp the best manager in the world for crafting high-energy teams. He has said, as recently as last week, that he expects Liverpool to win all of its remaining games in the Premier League.Klopp, of course, has been just as bad. Manchester City, he said around Christmas, is the best team in the world. A few weeks later, he said he had tried to find a weakness in Guardiola’s team, and come up short.This is not the usual timbre of discourse in a Premier League title race, particularly one so delicately poised that at this late stage, a single misstep from one would, most likely, hand the crown to the other. Much more familiar is the sort of playground psychological warfare practiced by Alex Ferguson and José Mourinho, where every word was a provocation.Initially, then, it was easy to assume that Klopp and Guardiola were simply trying to kill each other with kindness, even if it was not immediately clear what advantage, for example, Klopp’s describing Manchester City as “the best team in the world” might confer on Liverpool.So powerful is the legacy of Ferguson, so deep-seated the obsession with mind games, that it has taken a while to realize that there are no thorns hidden among the garlands, to remember that praise can have a function other than piling pressure on an opponent. Not everything is a play. Klopp admires the team Guardiola has built. Guardiola respects the transformation Klopp has overseen. It is the same among the players: Virgil van Dijk has voted for Raheem Sterling as player of the year. The ultimate destination of the title will not change that. Compliments can be sincere.With the race so tight — Liverpool (82 points) ahead at the moment, but City (80) with a game in hand — that mutual admiration does not extend to the fans of the two clubs, of course. There is no particular historical enmity between Manchester City and Liverpool, but over the last year a distinctly modern rivalry has started to take shape.At first, it seemed to manifest primarily online, performative and point-scoring, in which Liverpool resented City’s wealth, ambition and relevance, and City chafed at Liverpool’s history and fame. Over the last year that has changed, bleeding into the three-dimensional world, invoked in songs that sweep down from the stands at the Etihad Stadium, in particular.The great flash point, of course, was the attack on Manchester City’s team bus outside Anfield before last year’s meeting in the Champions League quarterfinals, an act met with outright and understandable fury by City. The direct competition between the teams this season, the fact that their fortunes are so inextricably intertwined, has served only to oxidize it.Even as the animus on the outside has hardened, relations on the inside remain cordial. When an article appeared earlier this year suggesting Fenway Sports Group, Liverpool’s owner, was leading a campaign to persuade the Premier League to investigate Manchester City’s breaches of Financial Fair Play rules, Liverpool moved quickly to offer City assurances that was not the case.The connections are even closer among the staff. Two of Liverpool’s senior scouts, Dave Fallows and Barry Hunter, were recruited from City; so, too, was Lee Nobes, the head physiotherapist; Mona Nemmer, Klopp’s head of nutrition, worked with Guardiola at Bayern Munich (and made such an impression that when he first arrived in England, Guardiola asked if the clubs might be able to share her expertise).Rodolfo Borrell, a key member of Guardiola’s coaching staff, meanwhile, made his name at Barcelona, but was first brought to England by Liverpool; he spent more than four years on Merseyside before moving to City in 2014. Darren Hughes, the lead coach at City’s academy, is among three staff members hired from Liverpool the same year.There is a limit to those bonds, of course. There is a lingering sense among some at City that Liverpool is offered preferential treatment by the news media, has a larger contingent of former players in television studios than is easily justified and receives rather more coverage than its recent achievements warrant. After the team waited three decades for a championship, Liverpool’s desperation is plain; for City, the pleasure of a fourth title in seven years would be heightened by the identity of its vanquished opponent.In a way, though, each team should be grateful for the other. City’s excellence has served to accelerate Liverpool’s improvement, persuading Fenway Sports Group to make Alisson Becker (briefly) the world’s most expensive goalkeeper, and to turn van Dijk into the costliest defender in history. City had set such high standards that there was simply no other choice but to invest; anything else would have been acquiescence to fate.And while Manchester City fans might have found last season’s procession to the title — when City became the first team in history to record 100 points — substantially less stressful, Liverpool’s emergence as a genuine rival has not diminished City’s greatness. Rather, it has accentuated it.
JACKSON COUNTY, Tenn. — Authorities say a diver who helped save a youth soccer team from a flooded cave in Thailand last year has himself been rescued from a cave in Tennessee.Jackson County Emergency Management spokesman Derek Woolbright said Josh Bratchley had been missing for nearly 28 hours when he was found Wednesday night and pulled from the cave. He was checked out at the scene, but said he was fine and declined medical treatment.Woolbright told news outlets that a group of experienced divers had reported one of its members missing after a dive. A larger search found him in an air pocket.Bratchley was part of a British team that rescued 12 soccer players and their coach from a flooded cave in Thailand.
LIVERPOOL, England — Mohamed Salah’s name flashed up on the scoreboard. It rang out of Anfield’s public address system. It rolled and roiled down the stands and washed onto the field and into the sky, infused with jubilation and wonder, with relief and belief.It was, though, wishful thinking. The last-minute goal that had given Liverpool an ill-deserved and scarcely explicable 2-1 victory against Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday, the strike that restored Jürgen Klopp’s team to the top of the Premier League — until Wednesday, at least — and that ensured Manchester City still cannot, technically, afford even one slip did not belong to Salah. Deep down, everyone in the stadium knew the truth: the goal, if it belonged to anyone, belonged to chaos.There is a tendency, as seasons draw to a close and prizes begin to be claimed, to imbue certain moments with particular importance, to believe that specific games and specific goals were not just decisive but defining: when trophies were won and lost, the fulcrum on which the whole season turned, the proof of the gray hand of destiny at work.Fans do it. Managers do it. Journalists and commentators do it, without fail, pretty much every Monday, obsessive saturation coverage demanding that no sooner have events ended than conclusions are drawn, that no weekend must pass without one thing or another having been decided or proved or finished. It is sport’s nod to Thomas Carlyle: a great moment theory of history.It is a comforting idea. By appointing certain moments as key, the long, exhausting stretch of a season comes to seem — even if only in retrospect — somehow more ordered; a structured, coherent whole seems to bloom from a morass of happenstance. It allows us to apportion merit, and blame, and to establish the parameters and boundaries of success. It means we can make sense of the randomness.It is, though, a myth. Seasons are, by definition, collections of moments; discerning which one is the one on which everything hinged, which one is more important than all the others, is an impossibility.For Liverpool this season, there have been half a dozen, at least. Daniel Sturridge’s late equalizer at Chelsea, way back in September, the goal that maintained an unbeaten start to the campaign; Divock Origi’s freakish winner in December’s Merseyside derby; the late penalty missed by Riyad Mahrez in October that ensured Manchester City did not win at Anfield; Origi’s miss, deep into injury time, against West Ham in February (for a reserve who has barely played this year, Origi seems to have been identified by fate as a person of immense interest).It is the same, of course, for City. The defending Premier League champion has seemed, at times, almost to breeze through much of the season, sweeping inferior opponents aside with little fuss and considerable style, but there are instants City will remember, too: the missed chances in defeat to Chelsea, perhaps, or Ricardo Pereira’s late winner for Leicester City; the shot from Sadio Mané that, somehow, did not cross the line when Liverpool visited the Etihad Stadium; the shot from Leroy Sané that, later on that evening, very much did.These are all the moments on which the season turned; not all of them can be worthy of that title. There were two alone in the final 10 minutes of Sunday’s game. First, Moussa Sissoko burst clear for Tottenham, only Virgil Van Dijk and Alisson Becker standing in his way, the chance not just to inflict untold damage Liverpool’s title hopes in his grasp. Van Dijk forced him to shoot; his effort rose and rose, flying high over the crossbar. Anfield breathed again.And then, with just a minute left to play, Trent Alexander-Arnold lifted in a cross — first time, too high, more in hope than expectation — and Salah, ghosting in at the far post, managed to meet it. His header was soft, and straight at Hugo Lloris; the moment seemed to have gone. For reasons that remain unclear, Lloris fumbled the ball. It fell onto Toby Alderweireld’s foot, and dribbled, in comical slow motion, across the line. Salah wheeled away in celebration, claiming the goal as his own, as if he only needed to believe it to make it so.It was not his goal, though. It was Alderweireld’s, if it was anyone’s, but really it was a strike against the idea that, even at this most rarefied level, there is a navigable structure to events. It was a reminder that not everything happens for a reason, that there is no overarching narrative, other than that which will be retrofitted with the benefit of hindsight; that sometimes, everything is chaos.The consequence is that, as the Premier League enters its final stretch, Liverpool has a two-point lead, but Manchester City has a game in hand. The former has the greater pressure, a three-decade wait for a league championship bearing down on a group of players who have never won a trophy together. The latter has the greater workload, with a game roughly every three days between now and mid-May, should progress be assured both in the Champions League and F.A. Cup.City is the favorite. Liverpool, as Klopp has said on several occasions, refuses to go away. The test now, perhaps, is how well Pep Guardiola’s team can cope with its hectic schedule as it chases glory on four fronts, and how well Liverpool can manage its nerves.The closest Premier League title race since 2012 will be settled by whichever frays first. Nothing, ultimately, is finished yet. All of those moments have come and gone. All of them have felt significant, seismic, in their immediate aftermath, little shafts of clarity in the overwhelming mood of uncertainty that descends on a situation this tight, this tense.There are six weeks to play, a handful of games, and there is still only one slip, one failure of concentration, one poor performance, in it. None of those moments has proved decisive: ultimately, irrevocably decisive. That is, as of now, still to come. It is April, and the season has not yet turned.
NEW YORK — Taylor Swift, TV journalist Gayle King and soccer star Mohamed Salah are among the six famous faces featured on the covers of Time's annual "100 Most Influential People in the World" issue.The other cover stars also included House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and actors Sandra Oh and Dwayne Johnson.Fellow Democrat Hillary Clinton wrote Pelosi "is living proof that when it comes to getting the job done, more often than not, it takes a woman."Johnson was praised for establishing a positive work environment, while Oh is cited for her creative life.Musician Shawn Mendes wrote Swift "makes anyone older feel young again."The issue is comprised of short tributes written by fellow global luminaries throughout all industries.Beyoncé penned an essay on former first lady Michelle Obama. President Donald Trump and Special Counsel Robert Mueller were also on this year's list.___This story has been corrected to show the singer's last name is Mendes, not Mendez, and the soccer star's last name is Salah, not Saleh.
Nevada law enforcement officials investigating a sexual-assault accusation against the soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo have requested a sample of the player’s DNA from the Italian authorities, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department confirmed Thursday evening.Mr. Ronaldo, a Portuguese wing and five-time world player of the year, plays in Italy for the powerhouse club Juventus.“The LVMPD is taking the same steps in this case as in any other sexual assault to facilitate the collection of DNA evidence,” Laura Meltzer, a spokeswoman for the Las Vegas police, said in a statement. The department declined to give any additional information about the investigation.Investigators are seeking the DNA sample as part of a recently reopened investigation into accusations by an American woman, Kathryn Mayorga, who said Mr. Ronaldo raped her in a Las Vegas hotel room in 2009 and later paid her $375,000 for her silence.“Mr. Ronaldo has always maintained, as he does today, that what occurred in Las Vegas in 2009 was consensual in nature, so it is not surprising that DNA would be present, nor that the police would make this very standard request as part of their investigation,” one of Ronaldo’s lawyers, Peter S. Christiansen, said in a statement Thursday.Juventus declined to comment.Mr. Ronaldo and his lawyers repeatedly denied the rape accusation when it first emerged in October; Mr. Ronaldo labeled them “fake news” in a video posted on one of his social media accounts, and at one point his lawyers threatened to sue the German newsmagazine that was the first to publish Mayorga’s accusations.The magazine, Der Spiegel, said it had obtained confidential documents related to the case, and the purported payment to settle it, from the shadowy whistle-blower platform Football Leaks. Around the same time, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said it had reopened its investigation into the alleged rape, following up on information it said had been provided to them by the victim.A number of the documents Ms. Mayorga’s lawyers say support her claim were published by Der Spiegel, which also published a lengthy interview with Ms. Mayorga. Mr. Ronaldo’s lawyers described the publication of the documents, which included a questionnaire Der Spiegel said detailed events that occurred in a suite at the Palms hotel almost a decade ago, as “blatantly illegal.”Mr. Ronaldo, now 33, was a star at England’s Manchester United when he met Ms. Mayorga, now 35, at a Las Vegas nightclub in 2009, just before his record-breaking transfer to Real Madrid. He invited her and others to his suite in the early hours of June 13, 2009, she said.According to her lawsuit, Ms. Mayorga reported the assault to the police later that day and received a medical examination, during which evidence was collected in what is sometimes known as a rape kit. The Las Vegas police have acknowledged that Ms. Mayorga filed a report and was examined, but the police said she did not name her attacker at that time. The case was reopened at Ms. Mayorga’s request in September.News of the warrant came two days after a second woman, Jasmine Lennard, an English model and reality television star who previously wrote a tell-all about her relationship with Mr. Ronaldo, accused him of violent behavior in a series of posts on Twitter.In more than a dozen posts, Ms. Lennard said Mr. Ronaldo had threatened to “have me kidnapped and have my body cut up and put in a bag and thrown in a river” if she dated somebody else. She also tweeted offers of help to Ms. Mayorga’s lawyers.She did not share the “hundreds of messages” she said she had kept, however, and later deleted her Twitter account. In a statement provided to a British newspaper, Mr. Ronaldo’s legal team said the player had never had contact with Ms. Lennard, and would take “appropriate legal action in due course.”Ms. Lennard could not be reached for comment on her accusations.
The organizing committee of FIFA announced Monday that it would recommend the use of video assistant referee technology at the Women’s World Cup this summer, bringing refereeing advances introduced at the men’s World Cup in Russia last year to soccer’s most important women’s championship for the first time. The decision, which is expected to be approved by the governing FIFA Council when it meets later this month in Miami, is a victory for women’s soccer players, coaches and fans who have highlighted gender equality issues in the international game.The technology, known by the acronym V.A.R., allows the on-field referee to consult with a colleague viewing video replays to help confirm, or overturn, close calls in a narrow set of instances. It was fully implemented for the first time at a major FIFA tournament last summer at the men’s World Cup, where FIFA hailed its introduction as a rousing success.But as the 2019 Women’s World Cup came into view, FIFA repeatedly declined to confirm whether V.A.R. would be at that competition as well, turning the issue into another flash point — alongside artificial turf fields and unequal compensation and bonuses — in the broader gender equity debate in soccer.On the V.A.R. point, at least, the debate seems finally to be settled.Gianni Infantino, the president of FIFA, said last weekend that he supported the use of the technology at the women’s event in June, stating that it was proving effective at discouraging the type of diving and playacting that often plague major soccer tournaments.“Players now know that it’s not just sufficient to have a look where is the referee, so if he doesn’t see me I can simulate, because he or she will be caught,” Infantino said, according to The Associated Press. “That’s why V.A.R. automatically helps the fight against simulation and diving in a very efficient way.”Referees for the Women’s World Cup began training with the video technology this winter at a series of seminars in Abu Dhabi and Doha. FIFA later said some had been introduced to the technology as early as 2016.Still, as this summer’s tournament in France approached, questions lingered about whether there would be enough time to get all of the untrained officials up to speed and comfortable with the protocols. FIFA on Monday said their progress had been satisfactory.“Based on the thorough work carried out over the past few months, FIFA is happy with the steps taken and the excellent job done by FIFA’s refereeing team and the female referees involved,” Zvonimir Boban, the deputy secretary general of FIFA, said in a statement. “We are confident about proposing the use of V.A.R. in France to the FIFA Council, as we are very positive about its implementation.”V.A.R. technology is quickly becoming an indispensable, if still sometimes controversial, presence at the top men’s competitions in the world. Many leagues and competitions — from Major League Soccer in the United States to Germany’s Bundesliga and England’s F.A. Cup — already use the system. European soccer officials announced in December that they would introduce it for the knockout rounds of this year’s Champions League, the world’s richest club competition.In a recent interview with The New York Times, United States Coach Jill Ellis said she felt it was “hugely important” that the use of V.A.R. in the women’s game kept pace with its spread on the men’s side.“First and foremost, we’ve got to fight for what’s going to help the game,” she said. “You can just see the benefit of it. It’s proven.”Becky Sauerbrunn, a longtime defender for the United States team, and a member of its 2015 Women’s World Cup champions, said that while the V.A.R. issue was far from the most pressing gender equality issue in international soccer, it symbolized the many little ways that FIFA can make the women’s game feel like an afterthought.For her, its use was just a matter of common sense.“For me it’s, why not?” Sauerbrunn said. “Why not give it to the women if you give it to the men?”
DUBLIN — Former Football Association of Ireland (FAI) boss John Delaney offered on Monday to leave the governing body completely, the FAI said, amid criticism from fans, players and politicians over the association's corporate governance practices.Delaney, who was moved to a newly-created role of executive vice-president just 24 days ago after it was first reported he provided the FAI with a 100,000 euro ($113,010) loan in 2017, faced criticism, including from Ireland's prime minister, for refusing to answer questions about the funds in front of a parliamentary committee.The short-term loan, which the FAI said it needed to relieve cash-flow issues in 2017 and avoid breaking its 1.5 million euro overdraft limit, has been a major news story in Ireland and led to investigations into the association's finances and corporate governance, as well as calls for sweeping board changes.The FAI's state funding was suspended last week as the failure to disclose the deterioration in its finance at the time contravened grant approval rules."John Delaney has offered to voluntarily step aside from carrying out his role as Executive Vice-President with immediate effect pending the completion of an independent investigation by the association into issues of concern to the board," the FAI said in a statement.Two other long-standing members of the 11-person board -- Honorary Secretary Michael Cody and Honorary Treasurer Eddie Murray - also voluntarily resigned on Monday. Delaney did not answer questions from reporters as he left a meeting with the board on Monday.Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar said on Friday that he did not think anyone would be satisfied by Delaney's appearance at the committee, where, aside from reading an opening statement, he remained silent through most of the five-hour hearing.Delaney told the committee he offered the loan as the FAI potentially only had a few hours to resolve its cash-flow issues and that he recalled asking the association's then finance director if any disclosure obligations arose from it.Following the meeting, two of the FAI's main sponsors, sportswear manufacturer New Balance and mobile phone operator Three, called on the FAI to quickly implement recommendations from reports it has commissioned into its corporate governance.Groups representing supporters and players also demanded that Delaney, who is a member of European soccer body UEFA's executive committee, leave the association he took charge of in 2004.Lawmakers were told last week that only three members of the FAI's board were made aware of the loan in April 2017 and FAI chairman Donal Conway said the association would handle cash flow issues differently if they occurred again.The Sunday Times newspaper, which first reported details of the loan, reported on Sunday that Delaney spent almost 40,000 euros on his work credit card in the space of six months shortly before he had to personally bail out the association.Citing credit card statements, the newspaper said the charges included duty-free purchases, meals in Delaney's local pub and cash withdrawals of more than 6,000 euros.The FAI did not respond to questions from Reuters over whether the alleged use of the credit card contravened its rules and Delaney's solicitor did not respond when asked to comment on the report.
They arrived in the offseason at a combined cost of $140 million, with the intention of bringing a new dimension to Liverpool's midfield.Fabinho would be the pure, out-and-out holding midfielder the team had been missing for a few years. Naby Keita would be the energetic, goal-scoring, box-to-box runner in the mold of Steven Gerrard.It has taken eight months — and some initial skepticism — but they are finally proving their worth to a team that could yet end the season as the Premier League champions, not to mention Champions League winners.The goals from Liverpool's three-pronged strikeforce of Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino speak for themselves. The defense, marshalled by the dominant Virgil van Dijk, is deservedly getting plaudits for the being the meanest in the league.But Liverpool manager Juergen Klopp at last might have his ideal midfield to complete the team.Much to his initial frustration, Fabinho was eased slowly into English soccer by Klopp following a move from Monaco for 50 million euros ($58 million). The Brazil international has underlined his versatility by filling in at center back — and even right back — but is now a mainstay as the team's midfield anchorman, his long legs and reading of the game regularly breaking up opposition attacks.Keita has taken even longer to feel at home since joining from Leipzig for a reported 70 million euros (then $85 million). Some turns and flicks aside, the Guinea midfielder has produced largely forgettable performances in his first season for Liverpool as he struggled to get attuned to the pressing game required in Klopp's team.But he has started Liverpool's last three games and scored in two of them — his first goals for the club. Even though he didn't score in the 2-0 win over Chelsea on Sunday that kept Liverpool in first place by two points, Keita regularly popped up in or around the box to give Chelsea's defenders another player to think about apart from Mane, Salah and Firmino."It is not easy to move from Germany to change club, especially as the league is not the same," said Mane, who briefly played with Keita at Red Bull Salzburg in 2014. "It is part of the things you have to deal with and he is working hard every single day."The real Naby is coming still."Tellingly, the blossoming of Fabinho and Keita has given Jordan Henderson some license and freedom to get forward, and the captain is in arguably his best form this season. Henderson changed the game when coming on as a substitute in the 3-1 win over Southampton on April 5 and set up Mane's opening goal against Chelsea with a delicate cross after bursting into the box.Henderson recently revealed he went to Klopp's office to speak to the manager about playing further forward, having spent most of the season as the holding midfielder in front of the defense. Fabinho's emergence has enabled Klopp to make that switch and Henderson looks, for the moment anyway, to have ousted Georginio Wijnaldum from the lineup.It is a tough call on Wijnaldum, who has been one of the best players not just for Liverpool but in the Premier League.But these are the ebbs and flows of a long season and the Fabinho-Keita-Henderson triumvirate looks to be Liverpool's new-look midfield. Expect them to be first choice for the final games of the season as the team chases titles at home and in Europe.___
The Red Bulls rallied from a scoreless first half to rout the visiting San Jose Earthquakes, 4-1, on Saturday behind two goals from Alex Muyl.The Red Bulls, who had the top record in M.L.S. in 2018, improved to 1-0-1. San Jose, which had the worst record, is now 0-3-0.Yet the Earthquakes turned in an inspired effort and had a 1-0 lead at the end of the first half. But in the second, the Red Bulls drew even a little more than five minutes in, and the momentum shifted.Bradley Wright-Phillips drilled a shot that forced San Jose goalie Daniel Vega to the ground for a diving deflection. The ball went to the left, and to Daniel Royer.Royer sent it back across the goal to Muyl, who first-timed it into the net to tie the game at 1-1.In the 71st minute, the Red Bulls made it 2-1, again on the efforts of Royer and Muyl. Royer took the ball to the end line before cutting it back to the middle. The ball deflected off a San Jose defender, forcing it into the air. When it came down, Muyl was waiting, volleying it home for the lead.Wright-Phillips made it 3-1 with five minutes left in regular time, converting a pass from Sean Davis. Royer got the last goal, putting home a cross from Michael Murillo in the final minute of the game.San Jose scored in the fifth minute. Magnus Eriksson found Cristian Espinoza down the right side. Espinoza pushed it into the box and then beat goalie Luis Robles to his right.
This photo gallery highlights some of the top news images made by Associated Press photographers in Latin America and the Caribbean that were published in the past week.Rival political factions took to the streets across Venezuela in a struggle for control of the crisis-wracked nation recently hit by crippling blackouts, as Vice President Mike Pence urged the U.N. to recognize an opposition leader as Venezuela's president in place of Nicolás Maduro.In Paraguay, more than 20,000 people were evacuated after torrential rains caused extensive flooding. Heavy rains killed at least 10 people and also left a trail of destruction in Rio de Janeiro.Also this week in Brazil, soldiers mistook a man's car for the vehicle of criminals and it was hit by 80 gunshots, killing him and wounding his wife's stepfather, according to Rio authorities.Female Bolivian officers introduced a litter of Golden Retriever puppies to be trained as police dogs, during a skills presentation of the K-9 unit. A girl and her father fed the pigeons in Havana on the day Communist Party leader Raúl Castro warned that Cubans should brace for worsening shortages due to Trump administration policies.Argentina's Racing Club soccer team celebrated winning their ninth national league trophy. Queratoro and Cruz Azul players wore blue noses as they walked onto the field for a Mexico soccer league match, to bring awareness and support autism month in April. Brazil's Flamengo defeated Bolivia's San Jose 6-1 in Rio de Janeiro. Julian Quinonez of Colombia's Deportes Tolima kneeled down on the field after Brazil's Atletico Paranaense scored their winning point at a Copa Libertadores soccer match in Curitiba, Brazil. A runner wearing a dinosaur costume took part in a marathon in Santiago, Chile.In Uruguay's capital, people held up image the disappeared from the country's military dictatorship. And a ferry boat that collided with a bridge pillar caused part of a bridge to collapse in the Moju River in the Brazilian state of Para.Supporters of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange protested his arrest in Quito, after Ecuador's President Lenin Moreno allowed British authorities to forcibly remove Assange from Ecuador's small embassy in London.___Gallery edited by photo editor Leslie Mazoch in Mexico City. On Twitter @LeslieMazoch
They are sports that bring in little in the way of money or notoriety or attention compared with the behemoths, football and basketball.In college athletics, volleyball, water polo, sailing, tennis and soccer are relatively small-time affairs that don’t fill stadiums or drive billion-dollar media contracts, and that is why they are at the center of what was described as the broadest college admissions fraud the Justice Department has uncovered.Just like the high-profile sports like football and basketball, coaches in the so-called Olympic sports are generally allowed to reserve several slots each year for students who might not otherwise gain admission. These slots are often in addition to those reserved for the truly elite athletes who receive athletic scholarships or their equivalent at the most selective universities.The Justice Department investigation revealed how this alternative admission path can be exploited and corrupted, especially at the dozen elite universities that were a target.Unlike in football and basketball, there is little in the way of formal rankings or general knowledge about who might be good at what are seen as minor sports, so admissions officials usually have to take coaches at their word when they tell them that an applicant is worthy of a spot on a volleyball or soccer or sailing team, leaving them open to exploitation.That is more difficult to do in big sports. “In basketball and football, it’s out there in the open, compared to the less financially driven sports,” said Corey Evans, a basketball recruiting analyst at Rivals, the recruiting website.[Several college coaches were named in the federal indictment Tuesday. Read more about each of them.]In short order Tuesday, the sailing coach at Stanford was fired. The U.C.L.A. men’s soccer coach was placed on leave, as was the Wake Forest women’s volleyball coach, and the men’s tennis coach at the University of Texas. J.B. Bird, a university spokesman, said Texas was “cooperating fully with the investigation. Integrity in admissions is vital to the academic and ethical standards of our university.” The university stated it believed Coach Michael Center’s actions did not involve “any other university employees or officers.”The water polo coach at the University of Southern California, Jovan Vavic, who has won 16 national championships, was fired after he was arrested at his hotel room early Tuesday morning in Hawaii, where he had traveled with the top-ranked women’s team for a match.The practice of reserving spots for athletes in minor sports has grown in recent years, people involved with college sports say, as more colleges have committed to pursuing excellence in every activity, from the chemistry lab to the tennis courts. Also, as the population continues to grow, slots at the most selective colleges are more competitive than ever.Stanford University said that last year, 47,450 students applied for admission, and the university accepted just 2,040. The acceptance rate of 4.29 percent was the lowest in Stanford’s history. No wonder, according to the complaint, the prominent Massachusetts real estate developer John B. Wilson paid hundreds of thousands of dollars in 2018 to secure a spot for his daughter at Stanford.Federal prosecutors did not charge students or universities with wrongdoing.At the heart of the scheme was William Singer, who, between 2011 and 2018, collected $25 million from parents to bribe coaches, and encouraged them to go to great lengths to falsely present their children as the sort of top-flight athletes that coaches would want to recruit.According to the indictment, Singer fabricated athletic “profiles” of the students to submit with their applications, which contained teams the students had not played on and fake honors not won. One student sat on a rowing machine to pass herself off as a rower. Singer’s associates also photoshopped the faces of the applicants onto images of athletes found on the internet.Kathy DeBoer, the executive director of the American Volleyball Coaches Association, said “people in the volleyball community know who the elite athletes are, but there isn’t enough of a spectator base at most places.”
DUBLIN — The entire board of Irish soccer's governing body has decided to step down by July in the wake of a furore over an undisclosed 100,000 euro (£86,371) loan, Transport Minister Shane Ross said on Tuesday.The Football Association of Ireland (FAI) acknowledged last week it had broken state funding rules by failing to tell authorities about the short-term loan made by its former chief executive, John Delaney, in 2017.In a filing to Ireland's Companies Registration Office published on Tuesday, the FAI's auditors Deloitte also said the 98-year old association's accounts were not being properly kept, contravening two sections of Irish company law. "It is clearly time for a regime change," Ross said as he announced details of the planned mass resignation. The Association had set out the plans in a letter to the government, he added."Given the ever growing lack of public confidence in the FAI, this move is to be welcomed and is hopefully the first step on the road to rebuilding trust in this important national governing body," Ross told a parliamentary committee.Sport Ireland, the government's sport coordination body, suspended all state funding to the Association last week, saying the body had failed to tell it about the financial troubles the loan was meant to ease. The FAI said it needed the cash to relieve cash-flow issues and avoid breaking its 1.5 million euro overdraft limit. It said it paid back the loan two months later.ANGER AND CONCERNSport Ireland Chairman Kieran Mulvey told the committee that the terms of reference audit firm Mazars was preparing into an "extensive investigation" into FAI would also include board expenses and payments to third parties.The Sunday Times newspaper, which first reported details of the loan, reported on Sunday that Delaney spent almost 40,000 euros on his work credit card in the space of six months shortly before he had to personally bail out the association.Citing credit card statements, it said the charges included duty-free purchases, meals in Delaney's local pub and cash withdrawals of more than 6,000 euros. The FAI and Delaney's solicitor did not respond to questions from Reuters over whether the alleged use of the credit card contravened its rules. Prime Minister Leo Varadkar, who criticised Delaney for refusing to answer questions about the loan at a parliamentary committee last week, said on Tuesday the government shared the concern of taxpayers and anger of fans at how the FAI has been run and more investigations were needed.Delaney, who was moved to a newly-created role of executive vice-president after it was first reported last month that he provided the FAI with the loan, offered on Monday to leave the governing body pending investigation.Two other long-standing members of the 11-person board also resigned on Monday. As a result of Deloitte's filing, the Companies Registration Office is now required to inform Ireland's corporate watchdog of the FAI's failure to keep adequate accounting records. The watchdog has already asked the FAI to explain the 2017 loan.
FIFA President Gianni Infantino held talks in Kuwait on Sunday about the country staging 2022 World Cup matches as he pushes to enlarge the Qatar tournament from 32 to 48 teams.After meeting with the emir of Kuwait and soccer officials, Infantino flew to Doha to see Qatari leaders on Monday about the prospect of overcoming the logistical and political complexities of adding 16 more teams to the hosting, which requires at least one additional Gulf country being used.FIFA maintains it is working jointly with Qatar on the viability of a 48-team tournament, but the concept is mired in complexities stemming from the boycott of Doha by neighbors. A FIFA internal report concluded last month that the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia cannot join the hosting unless they restore economic and travel ties with Qatar that were severed two years ago.FIFA instead turned to Kuwait and Oman, who have remained neutral in the diplomatic dispute, as potential hosts. But Oman's foreign minister last week said his country does not have time to prepare to host World Cup games, leaving Kuwait as the only current viable option to cope with the Nov. 21 through Dec. 18 tournament swelling to 80 games.Infantino met with Kuwait's ruler, Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah, National Assembly Speaker Marzouq Al-Ghanim and the management of the Kuwait Football Association, FIFA said in a statement. The discussions were "about football in the country in general, but also about the FIFA World Cup 2022," the world governing body said.FIFA's feasibility study into expanding the World Cup determined that two stadiums in at least one additional country were required to cope with the demands of extra games. Kuwait City's Jaber Al-Ahmad International Stadium has 60,000 seats but Sabah Al-Salem Stadium only 26,000 and requires upgrades.Ahead of Infantino arriving in Doha, Qatari officials held their first World Cup board meeting of the year on Sunday chaired by the ruling emir, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani."The latest Qatar 2022 developments were reviewed, including infrastructure projects, stadiums and security plans for the tournament," said Qatar's Supreme Committee for Delivery and Legacy.But those plans are in flux amid Infantino's determination to enlarge the tournament with less than four years to go until kickoff. Qatar is still working on a 32-team tournament as it completes eight stadiums over just a 30-mile radius in the tiny nation with just 2.7 million people, most of them foreign workers.Infantino said last week that he now believes there is only a 50% chance that the 2022 World Cup will see a fast-tracking of the jump to 48 teams that is already agreed to happen in 2026 when the United States, Canada and Mexico are joint hosts.After coming under pressure from human rights groups since winning FIFA's hosting rights vote in 2010, Qatar was forced to improve worker rights and improve labor conditions. FIFA has told potential new co-hosts they have to provide human rights guarantees, which have yet to be specified publicly.Qatar has an exemption that allows foreigners to drink alcohol, but Kuwait has a complete ban which could be problematic for FIFA, which has Budweiser as a major sponsor.FIFA has already had to adapt to cope with taking its showpiece tournament to the Middle East for the first time.While Qatar won a vote in 2010 on the basis of staging a June-July World Cup, FIFA shifted the tournament from its usual slot because of the fierce summer heat.
LIVERPOOL, England — Mohamed Salah has been here before. The edge of the opposition box, down Liverpool’s right-hand side, a defender snapping at his heels. A little burst of speed creates a touch, a glimmer of space. The ball is at his left foot. He touches it just a few inches in front of him.Mohamed Salah has scored this goal before. He seemed to score this goal almost continually last season: opening his body out, wrapping his foot round the ball, generating enough whip to carry it high, across the goalkeeper, arcing into the far corner. It is the goal that won him last year’s Puskas Award. It is the goal that at one point seemed to become his signature.The mechanics of it are still there. Now, he sets the ball just the same as he used to. He shapes his body just the same as he used to. He is, it is safe to assume, aiming for the same corner as he used to. This time, though, it is not quite enough. The ball curls, but it fades too soon. It picks up height, but too little. Jordan Pickford, Everton’s goalkeeper, barely moves. The ball drifts, welcome, into his arms.Salah missed more glaring opportunities than that as Liverpool, just as it had last week, visited a team desperate to see it fail and left with a goalless draw. The cost was a little higher this time around: A single point against Manchester United last week took Liverpool to the top of the Premier League table. The same result against Everton on a rain-specked Sunday left it a point behind Manchester City.Salah was not the only player who might have diverted the course of the game — Joel Matip and Fabinho, in particular, spurned their chances to become folk heroes — but he did it most often. Twice, once in each half, he raced clear, his feet a blur as he bore down on goal. Twice, his touch was heavy. Twice, his timing was awry. Pickford saved one; the defender Michael Keane stopped the other.But though they were his best chances, it was the first of them, the one that curled straight into Pickford’s hands, that was most symbolic of Salah’s campaign so far. Everything is almost exactly the same as it used to be, as it was in his unstoppable season last year, only it isn’t, not quite.It was, of course, unavoidable that Salah would be accused of suffering from what is popularly known as second-season syndrome. That is the unfortunate thing about setting quite so high a bar last season: even the slightest drop-off, or even the slightest perception of a drop-off, can be interpreted as an anticlimax.Anything other than a repeat of the improbable feats of his first season at Liverpool — 32 goals in 36 Premier League games, 44 in 52 in all competitions — would certainly be enough to invite criticism that his run of form had been an illusion.So it has proved. Salah has scored 17 goals in the Premier League in his 28 games this season. Good, of course; respectable, obviously, more than a goal in every two games; still a smart inclusion in the fantasy team, clearly. Is it a total bettered only by Sergio Agüero, putting Salah ahead of Harry Kane and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and the rest of the billions of dollars of strikers in the Premier League? O.K. But still, not quite the same. Not really.Salah, indeed, is a strange kind of busted flush. He was, according to his manager, Jürgen Klopp, “unplayable” as recently as four days ago, when he twisted and curdled the blood of Adam Masina, Watford’s left back, during a 5-0 win at Anfield. He has been criticized for disappearing in high-pressure games — not always wrongly — but in the one truly do-or-die game of Liverpool’s season so far, in the Champions League against Napoli, Salah scored the only goal. He is still his club’s leading scorer. Even at Goodison Park, even in the stalemate, it was abundantly clear that he was Liverpool’s greatest threat.That is not to say, though, that the criticism is entirely misplaced. Just as Salah is not a write-off because he has not managed to maintain his furious goal-scoring rate, it is hard to deny that he is not quite the force of nature he was for much of last year.Perhaps, in the early months of the season, there were mitigating circumstances: the lingering effects of that shoulder injury sustained in the Champions League final, the one that threatened his involvement in the World Cup and that hampered his performances in Russia.And perhaps, even as the injury has healed, its effects are still felt. Klopp dismisses any notions that Salah has lost confidence, but the heavy touches when he was once so deft, the slight stumbles when he was once so sure: they are the surefire signs.Salah’s newfound profile means he has to deal with the closer attentions of opposing defenders. He has had to do so, at times, in the absence of much creative assistance from Liverpool’s midfield, and for much of the year in a new position, too. He has not been able to pick up the burden when he is not quite as fluid, not quite as free as he used to be.There is no shame in that, of course. The number of goals he has scored despite all of that warrants respect, rather than scorn. The worry — from Klopp’s perspective, and from Liverpool’s — is that, in a title race that will probably be decided by the very finest of margins, what they need more than ever is the Salah of last year, the one who scored that same goal again and again, the one whose every touch seemed to be golden. If Liverpool is to overhaul Manchester City, if it is to end its 29-year wait for an English championship, it needs the player it had last season, rather than the one who is almost the same, but somehow, infinitesimally, not quite.
MANCHESTER, England — Jürgen Klopp was walking along the edge of the Old Trafford field, on his way from the locker room to speak to the assembled news media, when Liverpool’s fans spotted him.They had been corralled inside the stadium for 20 minutes or so after the final whistle, until the Manchester police had determined it was safe for them to be accompanied out. They had entertained themselves by singing, for a while, but had gradually fallen quiet, as if trying to work out their emotional reaction to the 0-0 draw they had just seen.And then Klopp appeared. As they lingered in the aisles, ringed by stewards, they turned to salute him. “Liverpool, top of the league,” they sang. Klopp had spent most of the afternoon with a deep-set scowl on his face, barking instructions at his players, bristling and bubbling with dissatisfaction.As he got closer, though, as he worked out what they were singing, he put one hand on his heart — on the Liverpool crest on his top — and, with the other, offered a little wave. He beamed that broad, warm smile, the one that makes him look a little like a happy shark. It lingered even as he turned away, before he got serious again.Liverpool’s day was a little like that, somewhere between a scowl and a smile.A draw with Manchester United meant a return to the top of the Premier League table, ahead of Manchester City by a single point, with 11 games left to play.It meant Klopp’s players have now faced the most daunting fixture of their run-in: against England’s most in-form team — United remains unbeaten domestically since Ole Gunnar Solskjaer replaced José Mourinho — and a club fizzing with motivation to see Liverpool fail. That point represented an obstacle cleared.There was no great sense of relief, though, no untamed glee among the traveling fans. The point also represented an opportunity lost, against a United team frayed by injury. Anthony Martial sat in the stands, not fit enough to be involved; Nemanja Matic was ruled out after picking up an injury in training.By halftime, Solskjaer had been forced to use all three of his substitutes, too, with Ander Herrera, Juan Mata and Jesse Lingard — a substitute himself — all limping off. Marcus Rashford, clearly in discomfort for much of the game, was forced to swallow a couple of painkillers and carry on.United’s midfield, for more than an hour, consisted of Scott McTominay and Andreas Pereira, callow youth forced to bear the responsibilities of grizzled experience. Liverpool would rarely have faced a United team with such threadbare resources, with quite so many square pegs in round holes. It would rarely have found fate smiling so kindly at Old Trafford. That point stood as proof, too, of Liverpool’s failure to profit from United’s troubles.But then Liverpool’s season has been a little like that: elusive, fuzzy, difficult to discern and define, as noteworthy for what it is missing as what is present.The raw numbers, of course, are enormously impressive: just one defeat all year — at Manchester City, right at the start of January, still likely the most significant result of the campaign — and more points than it has ever had at this stage of the Premier League. More points, indeed, than all but a handful of teams have had at this stage of the season.Liverpool has the best defense in the country, comfortably ahead of Manchester City’s in goals surrendered; Virgil van Dijk would be a contender for the various player of the year awards, a rarity for a defender. Only City has scored more goals.The best gauge of how impressive Liverpool has been, though, is that with two-thirds of the season gone, it remains ahead of a City team so good that Pep Guardiola, its coach, has spent a good part of the last week batting off questions about whether it can win all four trophies — the mythical, unprecedented quadruple — this season. (It picked up the first on Sunday, beating Chelsea on penalties in the E.F.L. Cup final.) City is a team that picked up 100 points in winning the title last year, and has, at various points, been deemed to be even better this time around. All of that, and Liverpool is still on top.And yet Liverpool does not look like a team capable of all of that: not just here, against a weakened Manchester United, but for considerable swaths of the season, too. City has a swagger and a panache and an irresistibility; Liverpool, on all but a few occasions, has seemed to toil for every goal and every point and every win.
This photo gallery highlights some of the top news images made by Associated Press photographers in Latin America and the Caribbean that were published in the past week.A former president of Peru, Alan Garcia, killed himself as he was about to be arrested in a corruption case tied to the Brazilian construction company Odebrecht, while ex-Peruvian President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski was hospitalized as he faces a similar investigation.Roman Catholics participated in Holy Week observances across Latin America at the approach of Easter Sunday.On the Colombia-Venezuela border, Venezuelans crossed illegally into the neighboring nation near the Simon Bolivar International Bridge, where Venezuela's government is allowing only students, seniors and the sick to cross. People in Venezuela's capital saw the first delivery of humanitarian aid brought in by the International Red Cross.Young students from poor communities received instruction in the intricacies of classical ballet in Chorrillos, a poor neighborhood of Peru's capital.Police and demonstrators clashed near Ecuador's presidential palace during a protest against the policies of President Lenin Moreno's government. Panamanians prepared to hold general elections May 5.In Cuba, international artists showcased new works at the Havana Biennial, which is meant to foster art appreciation among the public.Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro stood at attention in the rain during a ceremony in Rio de Janeiro marking Army Day. In Sao Paulo, teams competed in the Red Bull Soapbox Race.In soccer, Victor Santos of Brazil's Flamengo celebrated after scoring in a Copa Libertadores match, while coach Miguel Faria of Mexico's Cruz Azul gestured his anguish at his team failing to score in a Mexican soccer league game.___Gallery edited by photographer Dieu Nalio Chery in Port-au-Prince, Haiti.Follow him on Twitter at @CheryHaiti
NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE, England — Bill Corcoran is in his usual spot, in the shadow of St. James’ Park, opposite Shearer’s bar, rattling his bucket, when a pack of a dozen Manchester United fans marches past.They are wearing black jackets, hoods raised to stave off the cold. Just as they reach Corcoran, they launch into a deeply unflattering, mildly profane chant about the man after whom the bar is named: Alan Shearer, favorite son of both Newcastle the city and Newcastle the team. A few home fans jeer in response. The heckling just makes the interlopers sing louder.Toward the tail of the group, one man spots Corcoran, and veers in his direction. He pulls his wallet from his pocket, and leafs through a fistful of green, orange and purple notes.“Who are you collecting for, mate?” he asks. His accent is broad Mancunian. “Newcastle fans’ food bank,” Corcoran replies, his vowels unmistakably North Eastern.The man pauses. He shuffles the bills, and chooses a purple £20. He slips it inside the bucket, and hurries after his group. He picks up the refrain effortlessly. He is back to taunting Shearer, and Newcastle, before Corcoran has even had a chance to thank him.Over the next hour or so, dozens of fans stop at the same spot. Some donate money. Some come bearing bags of groceries, filled to the brim with canned fruit and breakfast cereals and dried pasta, to be dropped off at the makeshift booth behind Corcoran.Today is not a special occasion: the same thing happens every time Newcastle plays at home. So acute is the hunger in Newcastle now, so intense is the demand, that Corcoran, and a handful of other volunteers, do this every two weeks.Everything they raise — and they have raised a lot, somewhere in the region of £200,000 ($258,000), they believe — is sent to the West End Food Bank, in one of Newcastle’s most deprived areas. It is the largest institution of its kind in Britain. “We can’t have people in this city starving,” Corcoran said. “It is a badge of shame.”That dire state of affairs is not, though, unique to Newcastle. The demand for food banks in Britain has soared in recent years: the Trussell Trust, which runs more than 400 such programs, said it distributed some 1.3 million food parcels from its centers in the fiscal year ending in March, an increase of 13 percent.The spike, the charity’s chief executive, Emma Revie, said last year, can be attributed to the fact that too many people do not have “enough money coming in to cover the rising cost of absolute essentials like food and housing.”Earlier this month, the government’s Environmental Audit Committee warned lawmakers that more than two million people in Britain could be considered “food insecure,” meaning they struggle to eat regularly and healthily. Philip Alston, the United Nations’ special rapporteur for extreme poverty and human rights, described the problem as a “social calamity” on a fact-finding mission to Britain last year.And so, across the country, the same thing has happened: soccer, and in particular its fans, has stepped into the breach. Newcastle’s is not the only food drive; Corcoran and his colleagues said they took their inspiration from a similar initiative that started in Liverpool in 2015. Celtic fans have been running one in Glasgow for years. In recent months, fans in Manchester, Sunderland and London — among others — have done the same.In front of stadiums filled with multimillionaire superstars,  fans have taken it upon themselves to help those who need it most.“I like to feel I am doing my bit to give something back,” said Sandra Farn, as she dropped off a donation at the booth behind Corcoran. She and her son, Alex, drive the two hours from Nottingham for every Newcastle home match. They stop at a supermarket first, and load up. That, now, is part of the ritual of going to a game.Jonathan Yaseen comes to Newcastle games with his 15-year-old son, Zain, but also, usually, only after stopping at a local store for rice, cookies and canned fish. “He has asked me before why we are having to do this,” Yaseen said. “It is hard to explain.” 
BERLIN — Bayern Munich's 5-0 thrashing of Borussia Dortmund in their top-of-the-table clash left the Bavarians one point clear with six games left and a huge psychological advantage.Here are five talking points from the Bundesliga weekend: VAR BITES BACK AT SCHALKESchalke 04 were given a video assistant referee (VAR) let-off which surprised even themselves but were not so lucky the second time as a stoppage-time penalty handed them a 2-1 home defeat by Eintracht Frankfurt.Eintracht forward Ante Rebic went down in the area in the first half and, although most observers felt it was a clear penalty, the referee decided otherwise after consulting the pitchside screen."VAR doesn't give Frankfurt a penalty. We're not sure why not," conceded Schalke's Twitter feed.But there was a different outcome in stoppage time when Daniel Caligiuri was judged to have handled in the box and Luca Jovic converted to give Eintracht a 2-1 win."Caligiuri was pushed, then the ball bounced off his shoulder and against his hand," said Schalke coach Huub Stevens.The defeat left Schalke in 14th, five points clear of VfB Stuttgart who are in the relegation playoff spot. Eintracht, unbeaten since the winter break, are fourth and on course to qualify for the Champions League next season.JOVIC STEPS UP IN HALLER'S ABSENCEEintracht's regular penalty taker Sebastien Haller was missing through injury but, despite never having taken a penalty in the Bundesliga before, 21-year-old Jovic had no hesitation in stepping up to accept the responsibilityThe Serb coolly converted for his 17th league goal of the season and made a small slice of history in the process -- officially timed as being scored in the 99th minute, it was the latest-ever penalty in Bundesliga history.BAYERN COACH SINGLES OUT DORTMUND WEAKNESSSoccer coaches rarely single out individual weakness in the opposition but Bayern Munich's Nico Kovac broke with convention and pointed the finger at Borussia Dortmund's Dan-Axel Zagadou after their 5-0 win.Zagadou set up the second goal when his back pass fell to Roberto Lewandowski -- something Kovac said he saw coming.
BANGKOK — Two Australian cave divers who were instrumental in the rescue last year of 12 Thai boys and their soccer coach from a flooded cave received on Friday a royal honor from King Maha Vajiralongkorn in a ceremony in Bangkok.The “Wild Boars” soccer team, aged between 11 and 16, and their 25-year-old coach became trapped on June 23 while exploring the cave complex in the northern province of Chiang Rai when a rainy season downpour flooded the tunnels.A 17-day effort to rescue them gripped the world with experts from various countries volunteering to help.Richard Harris and Craig Challen were members of the main rescue team, made up of 13 foreign divers and five Thai navy divers, that brought the boys and their coach out to safety.They received the Most Admirable Order of the Direkgunabhorn at Bangkok's Government House before meeting Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha in their first trip back to Thailand since the rescue.They will travel to Chiang Rai and return to the Tham Luang cave on Monday to meet the boys and their coach."That's really exciting for us to go and see them and make sure they're well and see how they're doing after the rescue," Harris said.Harris, a physician specializing in anesthesia, was responsible for sedating the boys before they were brought out one-by-one on a rescue stretcher through flooded tunnels.The pair were in January named Australians of the Year, one of Australia's highest honors.King Vajiralongkorn has conferred various honors on 187 people in connection with the rescue, 113 of them foreigners including Tesla Inc Chief Executive Elon Musk, who were involved in the effort, according to the Royal Gazette in March.A former Thai navy diver died during the rescue.  (Reporting by Panu Wongcha-um and Panarat Thepgumpanat; Editing by Robert Birsel)
SAO PAULO — Brazilian soccer great Pele has successfully undergone surgery for the removal of a kidney stone in a Sao Paulo hospital.The Albert Einstein Hospital said on its website Saturday that Pele's surgery went well, but did not provide additional details.The 78-year-old was hospitalized in Brazil on April 2 after spending five days in a Paris hospital for a urinary infection.He had been in France to attend an event with forward Kylian Mbappe.Pele has been in the hospital frequently over the last few years for kidney and prostate problems.
The soccer star, whose new book is “Wolfpack,” began the sport because of a how-to guide from the library. “I scored 27 goals in my first three games. I guess I do owe it all to books.”What was the last truly great book you read?“Love Warrior,” by Glennon Doyle. It helped me get sober and love myself again. I’ve never read writing so honest and raw. I loved that book so much I married the author.What’s your favorite thing to read? And what do you avoid reading?Favorite thing to read: nonfiction. Avoid reading: anything with dragons or wizards.What books are on your nightstand?An advance copy of “Mary Magdalene Revealed: The First Apostle, Her Feminist Gospel & the Christianity We Haven’t Tried Yet,” by Meggan Watterson. It’s about the Gospel left out of the Bible — and buried in the Egyptian desert after a fourth-century command that all copies of it be destroyed — significant because it is written from a woman’s point of view, emphasizes that all humans are divine and insists that there is no need for middlemen between people and God. Since I’m still trying to detox from the homophobia, misogyny and mind control I internalized from growing up in the Catholic Church, I’m excited to dive into this one.Are there books that inspire you as an athlete? Any sportswriters you especially respect?When I read Andre Agassi’s “Open,” it was the first time I witnessed an athlete admitting to humanity and mistakes. After I retired, I was struggling hard with addiction. I wanted to write about it honestly but I was afraid that it might ruin my legacy as a sports hero or stain the reputation of the National Team. The first time I met my wife, I told her about my conflict and she said: I don’t know anything about the sports world, but here in the real world, we like real people. If you’re honest and you learn from your struggle — the world will love you more, not less. She and Agassi inspired me to write honestly in “Forward.” I’m glad I did, because it freed me to begin to live one life instead of two. Shamelessness freed me.What’s the most interesting thing you’ve learned from a book lately?“Good and Mad: The Revolutionary Power of Women’s Anger,” by Rebecca Traister, brought context to feelings I’ve had for a long time. During my soccer career, the difference between how the men’s team and women’s team were treated and paid was egregious. Even in years that the women brought in more revenue and bigger championships, the men were paid dramatically more. Because we are women, we were conditioned to just be grateful for the crumbs we were handed instead of demand what we deserved. When I read “Good and Mad,” it made me fully understand that neither my experience nor my anger was unique. I was just taking my place in a long legacy of women fed up with unequal treatment. It made me consider that my anger about injustice is nothing to be ashamed of, it’s something to be harnessed to make change — just as the brave women of the National Team are doing right now with their gender discrimination lawsuit.What’s the last book that made you laugh?“I’m Judging You: The Do-Better Manual,” by Luvvie Ajayi. I’ve known Luvvie for a few years now and it’s important that we understand how unbelievably funny she is. She has the ability to write words that many of us think, but never say.The last book that made you furious?“Educated,” by Tara Westover. What a beautifully written book. Westover is a genius. Maybe we all are until we get it indoctrinated out of us like Westover did. “Educated” made me think about how dangerous it is to tell a child who she is and what the world is instead of giving her space to discover both on her own.
Cleared by a disciplinary panel of performing a Nazi salute, a Premier League soccer player was still criticized for his lack of knowledge about fascism and Adolf Hitler.Crystal Palace goalkeeper Wayne Hennessey was described by a Football Association commission as having displayed "a very considerable — one might even say lamentable — degree of ignorance about anything to do with" the Nazi regime.The 32-year-old Hennessey, who is from Wales, had denied giving a Nazi salute because, the commission said, "he said he did not even know what one was.""Improbable as that may seem to those of us of an older generation, we do not reject that assertion as untrue," it said. "All we would say (at the risk of sounding patronizing) is that Mr. Hennessey would be well advised to familiarize himself with events which continue to have great significance to those who live in a free country."A photograph posted on Instagram by Hennessey's teammate at Palace, German midfielder Max Meyer, showed Hennessey with his right arm raised and his left hand under his nose. The photo was taken during a team dinner following Palace's win over Grimsby in the FA Cup in January.The FA charged Hennessey, saying the gesture brought the game into disrepute and was an aggravated breach of rules because it included a "reference to ethnic origin and/or race and/or religion and/or belief."Hennessey argued in a hearing that he was waving and shouting to the person taking the photo — an Italian waiter — and put his hand over his mouth to make the sound carry. An independent panel came down on the side of Hennessey.The panel said it was not challenged by witnesses in the hearing that "Mr. Hennessey does have rather a loud voice and tends to be impatient."Hennessey also provided screenshots and photographs of him on a soccer field, showing him with his right or left arm "raised at a similar angle (presumably to attract the attention of the defense in front of him)," the panel said."That someone later misinterpreted the gesture," it said, "may illustrate the perils of social media and the need for people to be careful to avoid such a situation. It has certainly also revealed a disappointing ignorance on the part of Mr. Hennessey with important parts of our culture and history."But that does not amount to proof that he has committed what would otherwise be a serious breach of (the rules)."______
BANGKOK — Two Australian doctors were given royal honors in Thailand on Friday for helping rescue a boys soccer team from a flooded cave and said they are looking forward to a reunion with the youngsters they helped save.Richard Harris and Craig Challen were given the award at a ceremony presided over by Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha. Four Australian officials involved with the rescue effort were also honored.Both highly skilled divers, the doctors played key roles in rescuing members of the Wild Boars soccer team and their coach from the cave complex in Chiang Rai province last July.They said before the award ceremony they were looking forward to going to the northern province Monday to see how the boys are faring."That's really exciting for us to go and see them and make sure they're well and see how they're doing after the rescue," Harris said. "Hopefully we will find them in good shape."A mixed team of Thais and expert divers from a number of countries combined in the dramatic search and rescue mission carried out after the team went missing when heavy rain flooded the Tham Luang cave complex.The drama, which lasted 18 days, gripped the attention of the world.Harris and Challen, who in January were jointly named Australians of the Year, said that should it ever happen again, they were ready to reprise their operation." We have a little bit more experience now," Challen said. "We seem to be the world record holders in cave-diving rescues now."They also joked about one of the British rescue team members, Josh Bratchley, who this week had to be rescued himself from a cave in the United States, and said they had left humorous messages on his Facebook page."Well, it's been a matter of some hilarity with us really. I'm glad it wasn't us because that would have been very professionally embarrassing for us, I can say," Challen said. "We are looking forward to speaking to Josh and getting the true story."Their final message was one for all young people: Don't let what happened to the Wild Boars scare you off having fun."Those boys and the coach were extraordinarily unlucky to have been caught out in the cave," Harris said. "I hope that doesn't stop people enjoying adventures and kids really need to do those sorts of things."
MONTERREY, Mexico — The St. Louis Cardinals, Cincinnati Reds and all of Major League Baseball will have one big fan rooting for them when they come together this weekend at Estadio de Béisbol de Monterrey — Mexican President Andres Manuel López Obrador.López Obrador, who took the oath of office last December, is a devoted baseball fan and is trying hard to help the sport succeed in a country where soccer is still king.The Cardinals and Reds meet for games on Saturday and Sunday, and the Houston Astros and Los Angeles Angels will play another two-game series at the same ballpark in early May.But López Obrador wants baseball to be more than just a couple of big league sets every year."It's well known that baseball is my favorite sport, since I was a kid in my town there was nothing more than baseball," said the 65-year-old López Obrador, who has several videos on YouTube where he shows off a good swing. "I can still play, I can still hit above .300, I played center field when I was younger and had a good arm and covered a lot of ground."MLB began holding regular season games in Mexico in 1996 when the San Diego Padres and Mets played three times. The 1999 season opened with a matchup in Monterrey between the Padres and Colorado. Last May, the Padres and Los Angeles Dodgers played a three-game series at the stadium — Walker Buehler and the Dodgers bullpen combined for a no-hitter.All of those series were a success with sellouts in Monterrey.López Obrador put some action behind his passion and recently created Promobeis, a government office run by Édgar González, a former player who spent a couple of seasons as a Padres second baseman and was Mexico's manager at the World Baseball Classic.Among other things, Promobeis has a goal to have between 60 and 80 Mexican players in the majors. This season, only eight local players started the season on big league rosters, but González — brother of former All-Star Adrian González — believes that he can he can have success because there are over 160 Mexicans in the minors."I love the challenge, it's something that has never been done before and can be a success. I think it's easier to have more Mexican baseball players in the big leagues than players in the NFL. Besides, we believe that we can help to take kids away from the bad habits," González told The Associated Press."We believe that having more players in the majors will help us to grow the sport's popularity. Right now we have a little bit over 160 players in the minors, in the majors right now there are 10 because some of them are constantly been called up or sent down. It's a good number and I believe we can grow in the future and have more players signing with MLB clubs like the Puerto Ricans or the Dominicans," González said.To put the program in motion, González and Promobeis have a $17.5 million budget for 2019. The money will be invested in the opening of 10 baseball academies that are going to be administered by the government."It's going to be great if they support baseball like the president wants. You need to start early in the sport to be successful," said former big league slugger Vinny Castilla, considered one of the all-time great Mexican players. "Baseball is our president*s great passion and that's big news because for all of us that love the sport, he is going to support the sport as much as he can."The idea of having more Mexican players in the big leagues as a way to boost the sport's popularity in the country is not new. MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred has spoken about it on several occasions as a big factor for the country to be considered like a candidate for an expansion franchise in the future.Besides López Obrador's ideas, another door to the majors opened for the Mexicans last March. That's when MLB announced an agreement with the Liga Mexicana de Béisbol that allows all players who are under contract to an LMB team to be able to sign with any MLB club as long the player is at least 25 years old or has six or more years of professional baseball experience abroad.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has spent much of his time as Manchester United manager harking back to the club's trophy-laden past under Alex Ferguson.Now it's time to focus on the future — and he knows it.United's 4-0 aggregate loss to Barcelona in the Champions League quarterfinals highlighted just how far England's biggest club remains behind the best in Europe, six years after Ferguson's retirement."I've said all along this isn't going to change overnight," Solskjaer said, "and the next few years are going to be massive for us to get to the level where Barcelona and other teams are at the moment."The so-called "new-manager bounce" provided by Solskjaer's arrival in December as the replacement for Jose Mourinho masked the frailties that still existed in United's team. From 14 wins — and only one loss — in his first 17 matches in charge, when United arguably overperformed, Solskjaer has now presided over five losses in his last seven games.United is out of the Champions League and might not get back into the competition next season after dropping to sixth place in the Premier League.So, the questions are coming thick and fast: Was United hasty in making Solskjaer its permanent manager on the back of his successful three months as interim coach? How much does United need to spend in the offseason to build a squad capable for challenging for the big titles? Will Paul Pogba still be at United next season? Does United need a director of football?"We've got a rebuilding job," Solskjaer said after the 3-0 loss to Barcelona in the second leg on Tuesday.SOLSKJAERWith his permanent smile and positive outlook, the Norwegian coach has been a breath of fresh air at United following the gloomy final months of the Mourinho era. His regular and sentimental references to the glory days under Ferguson — in which he played a major part — endeared him even more to fans.At first, he was a caretaker manager but the clamor to hire him on a permanent basis became so intense that United's American ownership relented and gave him a three-year deal on March 28. His results up to that point possibly merited it, but United could have waited until the end of the season.United is currently on its worst run of results this season and some of Solskjaer's selections are being scrutinized — for example, left back Luke Shaw playing as a left-sided center back in the first leg against Barcelona and center back Victor Lindelof as a right back in the second leg. Many fans wonder why Ashley Young is still being picked.Solskjaer's favored counterattacking approach worked perfectly in United's hot streak, but the team often had little control. Can he change his style of play to adapt to all types of games?OFFSEASON TARGETSThe squad clearly needs a shake-up, especially in defense where the much-criticized Young continues to play as an out-of-position full back. Center backs Chris Smalling and Phil Jones are still there, too, eight years after being members of the United team that lost 2-1 to Basel to get eliminated from the group stage of the Champions League.
Lauren Sara Wiley and Nathan Mark Terrazas were married April 13 at the South Congress Hotel in Austin, Tex. Rabbi Monty Eliasov officiated, with the Rev. Rob Hall, an auxiliary bishop of the Old Catholic Diocese of Uniformed Services, taking part.Mrs. Terrazas, 27, is a speech language pathologist at a private practice in Austin. She is also a Pilates instructor at Solidcore in Austin. She graduated from Northwestern, from which she also received a master’s degree in speech, language and learning.She is the daughter of Audrey B. Wiley and Richard B. Wiley of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. The bride’s father, who is retired, worked in the sales division at BMW in Mount Kisco, N.Y. Her mother, who works in Armonk, N.Y., is an administrator in the winter office of both Tripp Lake Camp, an all-girls sleep-away camp in Poland, Me., and Camp Takajo, an all-boys sleep-away camp in Naples, Me.Mr. Terrazas, 31, is a product specialist at ePayPolicy, a payment processor to the insurance industry in Austin. He graduated from DePaul University. He is the son of Elisa Terrazas and Mark Terrazas of Lansing, Ill. The groom’s mother is a cosmetologist in private practice in Munster, Ind. His father is a chief building engineer for SodexoMagic, an engineering firm in Chicago.The couple met in summer 2012 while they were working at Camp Takajo. She was a tennis counselor and he a soccer counselor. They bonded over their love of Chicago and the groom’s Australian shepherd, Roo.
MONROVIA, Liberia — A spokesman says Liberia's president is working from home after two snakes were found in the building that contains his office.Deputy press secretary Smith Toby tells The Associated Press that former international soccer star and President George Weah was told to stay away until the Foreign Affairs building can be fumigated. He is expected back in the office on Monday.The black snakes were seen this week briefly emerging from a hole in a wall of the building's reception area. Liberia is home to poisonous snakes and officials are not taking chances.The deputy press secretary says the fumigation has begun to take care of "crawling and creeping things."Weah, who was FIFA's 1995 player of the year, assumed the presidency in January 2018.
The best player in baseball is closing in on the richest contract in the history of North American sports. Mike Trout, the center fielder for the Los Angeles Angels, is finalizing a contract extension that will be worth about $430 million and keep him with the team through 2030, according to two people who were briefed on the deal but were not authorized to comment publicly.However the deal is calculated — either an additional $360 million over 10 years or the Angels’ total commitment of about $430 million for the next 12 years — Trout has eclipsed the previous record for guaranteed money: the 13-year, $330 million deal Bryce Harper signed this month with the Philadelphia Phillies.The extension, which was first reported by ESPN, would establish Trout as the highest-paid baseball player on an annual basis, topping the $34.4 million Zack Greinke is earning from the Arizona Diamondbacks on a six-year, $206.5 million contract signed in December 2015.[From 2017: Mike Trout, Baseball’s Best Without the Brand]While it is an enormous amount of money, even this record-breaking contract doesn’t necessarily bring Trout into the highest tier of overall income for professional athletes.While comparing contracts across sports and continents is an inherently difficult undertaking because of varied contractual structures, tax burdens, bonuses and ancillary benefits, it is clear that even with the monster deal Trout would fall well short of becoming the world’s highest paid athlete annually.The soccer superstar Lionel Messi, for example, is expected to earn more than 106 million euros (about $120 million) per year from Barcelona through 2021, an amount that could rise to 120 million euros if certain incentives are met. The boxer Canelo Álvarez will earn at least $73 million annually from a five-year deal with the streaming service DAZN.Trout, 27, also won’t have the highest annual salary in North American team sports. In the N.B.A., Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors is making $37.5 million this season, and the Houston Rockets’ James Harden will earn $42.3 million annually once his four-year, $169.3 million contract extension kicks in.The highest-paid N.F.L. player, Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers, earns a bit less than Trout is expected to: an average of $33.5 million from a four-year, $134 million contract (though only $98.7 million of that is guaranteed). Unlike Major League Baseball, the N.F.L. and N.B.A. have salary caps.Compared with superstars in other sports, Trout has a limited ability to earn money outside the game. Baseball players typically aren’t as well-known nationally or internationally as their counterparts in other major sports, and Trout’s lack of marketability has been lamented by M.L.B. Commissioner Rob Manfred.Trout does have a number of endorsement deals with companies including Rawlings and Nike, and in 2014 he became of the first baseball player since Ken Griffey Jr. to get a Nike signature cleat. But baseball players’ ability to move merchandise pales in comparison to that of a basketball player or a soccer player, and endorsement contracts reflect that.Trout earns an estimated $2.5 million from endorsements annually, according to Forbes. Kevin Durant’s endorsement deal with Nike alone is worth up to $300 million over 10 years, while Harden will earn $200 million over 13 years from Adidas. LeBron James of the N.B.A. and Cristiano Ronaldo, the Portuguese soccer star for Juventus, have lifetime deals with Nike that are rumored to be worth $1 billion each.While a handful of athletes earn more from their contracts annually than Trout, those individuals almost assuredly will not be doing so in 2030, the final year of Trout’s deal. N.B.A. contracts last a maximum of five years, and with a few exceptions, soccer contracts are rarely longer than that, either. Boxers typically earn their money fight to fight, while golf and tennis players simply claim a share of tournament prize money.But in 2030, no matter how Trout’s baseball career progresses, he will earn at least $36 million — a priceless long-term assurance.He has earned the payout by putting together seven astounding seasons to begin his career; the most similar players, production-wise, at his age, according to Baseball Reference, have been the Hall of Famers Frank Robinson, Ken Griffey Jr. and Mickey Mantle. Trout has won two American League Most Valuable Player Awards and been the runner-up four times. His career batting average is .307 and he is the majors’ active leader in on-base plus slugging percentage, at .990.
Here's your look at highlights from the weekly AP photo report, a gallery featuring a mix of front-page photography, the odd image you might have missed and lasting moments our editors think you should see.This week's gallery includes boys playing soccer in the historic Kasbah of Algiers, Algeria; a horse-drawn carriage traveling next to a highway in Frankfurt, Germany; and waves crashing against a line of trees in Minnesota.___This gallery contains photos from the week of April 6-12, 2019.See the latest AP photo galleries: https://apimagesblog.com___Follow AP photographers on Twitter: http://twitter.com/AP/lists/ap-photographersVisit AP Images online: http://www.apimages.com http://www.apimages.com/___This gallery was produced by Patrick Sison in New York.
LONDON — The long-running British TV soap "Coronation Street" is welcoming its first black family in its 59-year history.The soap opera is set to introduce the Baileys, a family with two sons. It will explore themes of racism and homophobia in sport, with a story line featuring one of the sons, a soccer player, coming out as gay.The show has charted the goings-on in the fictional northern England community of Weatherfield since 1960. It has cast individual black characters but not brought in a black family together before.Producer Iain MacLeod said Saturday he didn't really know why it has taken so long, but it "did feel sort of overdue we did this and represented modern Manchester a bit more accurately."
TOKYO — For fans, athletes, and volunteers, next year's Tokyo Olympics could become known as the get-up-early games.Hoping to beat the summer heat in the Japanese capital, organizers said Tuesday they will start the men's 50-kilometer race walk final at 5:30 a.m. The men's and women's marathon finals go at 6 a.m.Marathon swimming will kick off at 7 a.m., and the men's and women's triathlon start at 7:30 a.m.Even women's softball has some games scheduled for 9 a.m. No men's baseball games will start before noon."9 a.m. is early, that's my impression," said Reika Utsugi, the head coach of Japan's women softball team, speaking through an interpreter. "But we will have one year for the preparation. Softball cannot decide the times."Softball and baseball were dropped after the 2008 Olympics, and are appearing because of the sports' popularity in Japan.The 1964 Tokyo Olympics were held in the fall and did not face heat problems. But modern Olympics can no longer be held in that timeframe, needing to avoid Europe's crowded soccer schedule, and year-round scheduling of the big four sports in the United States — football, baseball, basketball and hockey.Koji Murofushi, the sports director of the Tokyo Games and a Japanese Olympic gold medalist, said organizers had consulted about the schedule with the International Olympic Committee, the governing bodies of the sports, and athletes and medical experts. He said athletes can adapt."When we look at the Olympic games as a whole, of course we need to consider the global audience and adjust and control the overall schedule," Murofushi said, speaking through an interpreter. "Athletes, when they know the schedule in advance, can make an adjustment to prepare."As previously announced, the swimming finals will begin at 10:30 a.m. The swim schedule has nothing to do with the heat and will follow the pattern of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. The morning schedule in Asia allows North American television to telecast the finals live in prime time in the evening.American broadcaster NBC in 2011 agreed to pay the IOC $4.38 billion for TV rights through the 2020 Games. It later agreed to an extension through the 2032 Olympics, paying the IOC an added $7.75 billion.Organizers say the first gold medal event will be the women's 10-meter air rifle, which will take place on July 25 — the day after the opening ceremony.Organizers have labeled Aug. 8 — the day before the closing ceremony — as "Super Saturday" with about 30 finals, the most of any single day. Finals will include men's basketball, men's soccer and men's baseball.The most difficult event to schedule might be surfing, which was added to the Tokyo Olympics. Organizers have blocked out eight days for the event, hoping surf's up for at least four of them. It's a four-day event."The competition schedule is subjected to change depending on the wave conditions," organizers said.
(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. 
(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. 
MANCHESTER, England — The first ball floated backward, spinning and arcing toward the net. For a second, it hung in the air, a foot or so above the white goal line. Manchester City, Liverpool, the Etihad Stadium crowd all held their breath.And then John Stones reached it, and sent it as far away from himself, from danger, as he could. Anthony Taylor, the referee, checked his watch for the goal-line technology reading that would determine if the entire ball had crossed the line before Stones reached it. He waited. Everyone waited.He shook his head. The slightest sliver of orange and purple leather had remained above the line — less than an inch. City could breathe again.The second ball — an hour or so later — traveled quicker, caught sweet by Leroy Sané’s left foot. It struck the sole of Trent Alexander-Arnold’s boot and flew past Alisson Becker’s outstretched hand. Its trajectory shifted, just enough. It struck the bottom of the far post, and skittered along the same white line. Another intake of breath. It clipped the foot of the near post. This time, Taylor did not need to look at his wrist.Fine lines, slender margins. Liverpool did not score, Manchester City did. Liverpool did not win, Manchester City did. It does not change everything: Liverpool remains at the top of the Premier League, four points clear of the reigning champion. But when the time comes to look back on this season, this result may have changed enough.That is how it felt when Taylor blew his whistle, confirming that Sané’s goal had been enough to seal a 2-1 victory for Pep Guardiola’s team, enough to end Liverpool’s 19-game unbeaten run, enough to evaporate the faint aura of invincibility that had started to attach itself to Jürgen Klopp’s team.Manchester City’s players sank to their knees in ecstasy. The stands bounced and heaved. Guardiola — just moments removed from berating Martin Atkinson, the fourth official, for some perceived error by Taylor — embraced his coaching staff, and hugged his players.[More from Rory Smith: David Silva, Manchester City’s Key Piece, Is Now More Valuable Than Ever]Later, Guardiola would be asked if his captain, Vincent Kompany, should have been sent off, instead of receiving just a yellow card, for a first-half foul on Mohamed Salah: another fine line, another slender margin. Guardiola did not want to contemplate such a question “on a night like this,” he said.This was the moment, manager and players and fans had decided, on which the whole season would turn, when the slightest differences could have seismic consequences. Guardiola had made clear, in the days beforehand, that this was a game Manchester City could not afford to lose.It would, he believed, be “impossible” to catch up to a team as good as Liverpool — maybe the best in the world, he called Klopp’s side, trying to kill his foe with kindness — if it won and secured a 10-point lead with 17 games to play.The fans clearly felt the same way. As City cantered to the championship last season, the Etihad was a contented, mellow sort of place — quietly confident in its own obvious superiority. There was little tension, no drama. Against Liverpool, under pressure, it was raucous and angry, possessed of the same manic energy that infused Guardiola’s players.By the end, that energy had transformed into jubilation. Trailing Liverpool by four points, as City does now, is hardly ideal; a month ago, most people connected to City would have been hard-pressed to even imagine such a situation. But when the damage could have been so much worse, it felt like a blessing. City can celebrate all that it has gained; it need not worry about the ground it had lost.Four points is a couple of bad afternoons over the course of five long months. Four points is a lapse of focus in the league because of the demands of the Champions League. Four points is an unfortunate injury, or a needless sending-off. It is the bounce of a ball. It is a fine line, a slender margin.It is particularly precarious now, in what the Premier League has become: a two-tier competition in which, every week, six elite teams demonstrate their superiority over what are in theory their peers, but their pawns in practice. The pace that Liverpool, Manchester City and Tottenham Hotspur — in third, just six points off the lead — have set this year has been historic.
In what the Justice Department called its largest ever college admissions prosecution, federal authorities charged 50 people on Tuesday with taking part in a nationwide scheme to game the admissions process at highly competitive schools like Yale and the University of Southern California. [The college admissions scandal has raised a lot of questions. We’ve answered them here.]Those charged include wealthy and powerful parents accused of paying millions of dollars in bribes, exam administrators and athletic coaches accused of manufacturing students’ achievements, and private admissions counselors accused of coordinating it all. At the center of the scandal are the Edge College & Career Network, also known as the Key, and a nonprofit organization, the Key Worldwide Foundation, that prosecutors say effectively were a single enterprise. They are accused of helping students cheat on standardized tests, and paying bribes to athletic coaches who could get the students into college using fake athletic credentials. [Read more on the Justice Department’s largest ever college admissions prosecution.][Read more about how the F.B.I. says parents cheated to get their children into elite colleges.]Federal prosecutors accused dozens of parents of paying millions of dollars in bribes to help their children secure spots at prestigious American universities. Athletic coaches from top colleges were also implicated and accused of accepting millions of dollars to help students gain admission.Teachers, test administrators and private instructors are named as co-conspirators in the federal charging documents. 
MANCHESTER, England — Sergi Roberto might have noticed Lionel Messi’s battle scars first: the slightly swollen nose, or the faint trace of a bruise, flowering around his left eye. Or he might have realized that the rest of the Argentine’s features were of far greater concern: Messi’s brow was furrowed. His face was set into a scowl. He was staring straight at his teammate. Roberto had let him down.His offense was one scuffed pass, a deflating climax to a wonderful, flowing move down Barcelona’s right flank. A better ball, a little more composure, and Messi would have had a glorious chance to double his team’s 1-0 lead — not necessarily enough to settle this Champions League quarterfinal, to doom Manchester United, but a significant tilting of the balance ahead of next week’s second leg in Barcelona at the Camp Nou.It was, in Roberto’s defense, an aberration. Until that point, he had offered poise and drive since coming on as a substitute for Arthur, the Brazilian midfielder; he had improved Barcelona considerably.By that stage, though, Messi was in no mood to consider mitigating circumstances. His frustration had been building for an hour or so — with himself, with his teammates, with what he very clearly felt was an overly physical approach from United’s defenders and an excessively lenient one from Gianluca Rocchi, the Italian referee. Through his war wounds, Messi subjected Roberto to his sternest glare.Whenever Barcelona sweeps into town, it carries with it certain expectations. Barcelona is style and it is beauty. It is treasuring the ball, cherishing possession, every touch perfect and every pass precise. It is attacking intent and artistic sensibilities. Home crowds may not come to enjoy it — they may, in fact, come specifically to disrupt it — but they expect at least to admire it, teeth gritted and breath taken.Much the same, of course, goes for watching Messi. He had not graced Old Trafford for more than a decade; United had not encountered him at all since 2011, when he orchestrated the defeat of Alex Ferguson’s team at Wembley in a second Champions League final.Old Trafford was ready for him on this day, though. When the teams were read out before kickoff, there were deafening, vituperative jeers for both Philippe Coutinho and Luis Suárez: both, in Mancunian eyes, can be considered forever tainted by their association with Liverpool. Messi’s name attracted a little opprobrium, too: not quite the howling chorus reserved for his teammates, but not too far-off. In his case, it felt a little like a compliment, as though stopping him would require not just the 11 individuals on the field, but the 76,000 or so in the stands, too.In some ways, then, Manchester United’s fans would leave the stadium, a couple of hours later, feeling as though they had done their job. Messi did create the game’s only goal — of course he did — with a darting run, a heavy touch, and an improvised cross for Suárez to head home (with the help of a final touch from Luke Shaw), but for long stretches he seemed subdued.He drifted out wide in search of space and success, but found neither. He dropped deep, to try to light some fire in Barcelona’s belly, but could muster only embers. There were moments, of course — such is the quality of player Messi has around him that there will always be moments — but they were fleeting: the goal itself, the product of two minutes of possession, with every visiting player touching the ball; chances in the first half for Coutinho and in the second, after another spell of endless possession, of what seemed a thousand passes, for Suárez.By the time Roberto had made his poor choice on the edge of Manchester United’s box, Messi was feeling frayed. He had not lived up to his own expectations, and neither had his team, though it is hard to separate which one of those is cause and which is consequence. Either way, Roberto’s errant delivery was the final straw. Messi glowered and glared.And yet, while this victory felt like it came despite — rather than because of — Barcelona’s performance, it was, nevertheless, a victory, and in some lights rather an impressive one.Barcelona did not play at all well for long stretches, and yet emerged with a lead, an away goal, and a sense that United had been kept at arm’s length with comparative ease. The home team, in fact, did not have a single shot on target; there were flurries of pressure, brief spells when Barcelona seemed to be teetering, only to be carried to safety by the nous and composure of Gerard Piqué, Clément Lenglet and Sergio Busquets.It was not what we expect of Barcelona — and judging from Messi’s reaction, it is not necessarily what Barcelona expects of itself — but it showcased many of the traits that the team that goes on to win this competition tends to possess: maturity, cunning, patience, control, and, most decisive of all, an ability to click, even if only briefly, and find a gear that an opponent cannot match.It is not a comparison that would be especially welcome in Catalonia, but in that sense it was a display straight out of the recent playbook of Barcelona’s archrival, Real Madrid: a sort of base level of organization, laced with enough individual talent to make a difference; a superiority that is not immediately visible, but that makes itself plain by the end.Perhaps that is no bad thing. For the last 10 years, Barcelona has always been the most stylish, the most gifted, the most compelling team in the Champions League. It is the most immediately recognizable, the one that inspires the most fear, the one that comes with the greatest expectations.
Good morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Although the California connections run deep throughout the sprawling college admissions scandal, the complex federal case is now playing out in Boston. My colleague, Kate Taylor, has been covering the court proceedings. Here, she reports on the latest: In a coup for prosecutors and possible bad news for other defendants in the sweeping college admissions fraud investigation, one of the parents charged in the case, Davina Isackson of Hillsborough, Calif., has agreed to plead guilty and to cooperate with the government, according to a person with knowledge of the case.Two other parents have said so far that they intend to plead guilty, and more will probably follow in the coming days. But Ms. Isackson’s agreement to cooperate is significant. Ms. Isackson and her husband, Bruce, a real estate developer, were accused of conspiring with William Singer, the college consultant at the center of the case, to bribe athletics officials in order to secure their daughters’ admission to U.C.L.A. and U.S.C. as athletic recruits.Prosecutors also accused them of paying Mr. Singer so that a proctor could correct their younger daughter’s answers on her ACT exam. The prosecutors have said that the Isacksons paid Mr. Singer a total of $600,000.[Catch up on all of The Times’s coverage here.]Mr. Singer has pleaded guilty to racketeering and other charges.The agreement to cooperate means that Ms. Isackson will share what she knows about the roles that officials at U.C.L.A. and U.S.C. played in the scheme and, if their cases go to trial, could testify against them. It also puts pressure on other parents charged in the recruitment scheme; if Ms. Isackson testifies that she believes her actions were wrong, it makes it harder for others to say that they thought that they were simply making innocent donations.One unusual aspect of the Isacksons’ case is that, according to the charging documents, their older daughter, Lauren, who was admitted to U.C.L.A. as a soccer recruit despite not being a top player, was required to participate on the team as a student-athlete for a year. She is listed on the 2017 roster as a midfielder. Most students involved in the case did not actually play on the teams they had been recruited for.Prosecutors say that, after Lauren Isackson was provisionally admitted to U.C.L.A., Mr. Singer directed $100,000 to a sports marketing company controlled by Jorge Salcedo, the former head men’s soccer coach at U.C.L.A. The government has charged Mr. Salcedo with conspiracy to commit racketeering, and he has pleaded not guilty.Davina Isackson could shed light on whether the coaches of the women’s soccer team were also in on the scheme. Amanda Cromwell, the head coach of women’s soccer at U.C.L.A. since 2013, did not respond to messages.Both Davina and Bruce Isackson will plead guilty to conspiracy to commit mail fraud and honest services mail fraud, according to the person with knowledge of the case. Mr. Isackson will also plead guilty to money laundering conspiracy and conspiracy to defraud the United States.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)
FRIDAY PUZZLE — I can’t help myself; I have one more column to write before I actually leave for the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament. After this, I’m really off, I swear.Brendan Emmett Quigley is back with an incredibly crunchy puzzle that may seem difficult to some. Mr. Quigley is known, in traditional venues and on his own website, for his unusual and amazingly fresh fill (he is known for debuting the cryptic phrase WHY YOU LITTLE nearly 20 years ago, clued as “Angry parent’s yell”). This puzzle is no different. We’ve got entries for everyone in this one, including a newly designated ailment called WIIITIS, which may have thrown a lot of solvers off with the three consecutive I’s. Before you say anything, it is a real thing that has even been written up in an actual medical journal. As a fan of the movie “Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse,” which plays with the MULTIVERSE theory by having several versions of the web-slinger converge from different dimensions, I also enjoyed the debut at 26A. — I also liked the throwback to the 1960s Italian film director CARLO PONTI.There’s a lot more to enjoy and learn about in Mr. Quigley’s puzzle, but I’m going to let you dig for treasure. It’s more fun that way. Then come back here and let’s go over a selection of the trickier clues. 20A: Well, sure. If someone came into my house and messed up the flooring, I would most likely shout, “MISLAYER!” all while pointing a “J’accuse!” finger at him.31A: A tough one for those who don’t speak Latin or didn’t go to law school, but it is Friday, so it’s time once again to familiarize ourselves with a new clue. I say “new clue” because the word ESSE has been in The New York Times Crossword 847 times, including this puzzle. So it’s not coming out of nowhere, but the clue seems new if you look at XWordInfo.com. As the clue says, “Auctor ESSE” means to “authorize, in legalese.”34A: A question for those who are in construction: Isn’t an H-BAR really an I-bar turned sideways? You can be honest with me. I won’t tell anyone.42A: Most people would recognize the Easter Island statues, but did you know they are really called MOAI?47A: Congratulations to the Italian soccer team JUVENTUS for making its New York Times Crossword debut.4D: We haven’t seen the word SKALDS in a while. They were ancient Norse bards or poets who recited poems of valor about their heroes. Sounds like a good gig.40D: I thought CARDI B would be a debut, but she’s been in the Crossword once before, in October 2018. Congratulations on that Grammy, Ms. B.Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. Your thoughts?
BOSTON — At 5 on a windy winter morning, in a cold, harshly lit warehouse in Boston’s seaport district, Baracat Paiva stared down at the 200-pound bigeye tuna before him and reached for his knives. Mr. Paiva, as tall and imposing as the dead fish before him, dipped his cloth-gloved hand in warm water, to keep his fingers from numbing. He deftly sharpened an eight-inch knife against a water stone before plunging it into the silver-scaled fish and sawing off the collar, using another, bigger knife to lop off the bone. A few bits of tuna sprayed off his knife and stuck to his hooded sweatshirt and flat-brimmed baseball cap, but he didn’t seem to notice.Then, in a single motion, he slid the knife down the length of the fish on one side, then made another slice on the other. After a few more strokes, he carefully peeled away the rib cage and splayed open the fish, which split into four neat sections. He picked up one of the fillets, brimming with burgundy-hued flesh, and bounced it around in his arms like a baby.“Beautiful,” he said.Mr. Paiva, the highest-volume fish cutter at the popular Boston wholesaler Wulf’s Fish, has become something of a celebrity at a job that normally doesn’t attract much attention. The videos of his cutting skills that he regularly posts on Instagram have drawn hundreds of thousands of views, and comments from admirers around the world who are mesmerized by his swift, graceful motions and the sheer size of the fish he breaks down. Mr. Paiva’s bravura personality is big, too. He often adds urgent background music, or shouts out his slogan: “Boom!” Occasionally, he’ll lick or kiss the fish, or cut out a small piece and eat it — theatrics that have won him comparisons to Salt Bae, the Turkish chef (real name: Nusret Gokce) famed online for playfully salting steaks. Some fans call Mr. Paiva “Fillet Bae.”Many of those followers might be surprised to know that little over a decade ago, Mr. Paiva (pronounced PIE-ay-vah) had never even touched a knife. He was a professional soccer player in Brazil.Mr. Paiva, 37, grew up surrounded by seafood; his hometown, Ilhéus, is on Brazil’s eastern coastline. But he was most interested in playing soccer. “Eighty percent of Brazilians are raised with a ball in their hands,” he said.At age 17, in 1998, Mr. Paiva was spotted by a talent scout and invited to become a goalie for Colo Colo de Futebol e Regatas, his town’s professional soccer club. He was the youngest player on the team.“I was living the dream,” he recalled­. Many people his age wanted to play soccer professionally, and the Brazilian teams are known the world over.But a few years later, at the prime of his career, he cracked his ribs trying to catch a ball, and a doctor told him he couldn’t play soccer anymore. “I was devastated,” Mr. Paiva said.In 2004 his father sent him to Norwich, Conn., to live with family friends and get his mind off soccer. Mr. Paiva found a job as a dishwasher at Jasper White’s Summer Shack, a seafood restaurant in the nearby Mohegan Sun casino.He worked his way up to shucking oysters. Then one day, his boss threw 100 pounds of bluefish onto the counter and showed him how to break them down into fillets.Fish cutting “was really unfamiliar to me,” Mr. Paiva said. “In Brazil, we eat everything whole, with the bones. But this was fun.” And he loved eating seafood.
NEW YORK — The future of NBA basketball could look like European soccer.Tournaments that take place during the season along with league games intrigue Commissioner Adam Silver as a way to change the format of the NBA's 82-game season.If it even keeps an 82-game season.Silver mentioned everything from shorter games to a shorter season Friday as ways the NBA could make its future product better for players and fans."The format we have in place now — I'm a traditionalist on one hand, but on the other hand it's 50 years old or so, presenting an 82-game season, and there's nothing magical about it," Silver said."I think it's on the league office to always be challenging the way we do things, to be paying attention to changing viewer habits, a changing marketplace, a new world of the way media is presented, often on smaller devices, less on screens, people having shorter attention spans, and saying, 'This is an incredible game, it's never been more exciting, the athleticism has never been greater, fantastic players coming from all around the world, but what's the best way to put the season together?'"Silver has focused on player health as commissioner, opening the regular season earlier to reduce the frequency of back-to-back games, and lengthening the All-Star break.But players are still sitting out games throughout the season — either by their choice or because their teams are requiring it — often for reasons being listed as load management."I think a fair point from fans could be if ultimately the science suggests that 82 games is too many games for these players, maybe you shouldn't have an 82-game season," Silver said. "I accept that, and that's something we'll continue to look at."Fewer games could mean less revenue, unless they could be replaced by something that would generate as many or more viewers. Tournaments could be an answer, even if 82 games remains the format.Silver has pointed to European soccer as something that could bring new interest to the NBA by offering teams more opportunities to win something, instead of just having one champion."That's why I'm particularly interested in looking at different kinds of formats — at midseason tournaments, for example, play-in tournaments — because even accepting that players have so many miles on their bodies, there may be better ways to present it," Silver said. "Assuming guys are going to play 82 games, maybe there should be a certain number of games in the regular season and then there should be two tournaments throughout the season."He acknowledged that model would require a change of thinking in American fans, who are used to only caring about the winner of the NBA Finals.Silver also mentioned the possibility of trimming games from 48 minutes to 40, which is the length of college and international games.He cautioned that none of the changes he discussed after the league's Board of Governors meetings were close to being implemented, and would continue to be studied within the league, perhaps for a few years.
FRIDAY PUZZLE — Happy Friday! Deb is visiting one of her children and Howard Barkin’s puzzle is abuzz with interesting entries, so here’s to life, everybody. Everywhere you look in this grid today there’s something that leaps, creeps, bites or stings, plus symbolism, and snacks. What’s not to like?The littlest things grab me sometimes; today the clue for ANT reminded me of my favorite fable. (Am I a self-righteous scold sometimes? Signs point to yes, I love a good MAXIM.) I knew MIA SARA from a fun movie and THE LORAX from a profound book, and figured out MADMEN and ROGUE ONE with little issue. I went a cropper, though, with the “television character at” 54D and the “start to place names” at 54A. I had “sori” and “san,” which didn’t correct until I figured out the extremely witty clue for SEXT at 56D, and then fixing “san” to LAS and “sori” to LORI. 22A: I can’t attest to its current acceptability, nor have I used the term myself, but I have heard various pet pix described as “TOTES adorbs” on occasion. It’s a snappy replacement for the overused “tooootally,” which reliably comes back from the dead when its substitutes, like TOTES, lose conversational currency. I was briefly waylaid by mis-entering “I have to ask” at 12D.24A: I thought I might be looking for some small character in “Moby Dick,” this being a Friday, but we are indeed in a Starbucks, and between this one and the next Starbucks is a competing coffee shop, hiding in McDonald's, a MCCAFE. 57A: Never heard of him, but Wayne ROONEY is a current star and plays in the United States, with Major League Soccer’s D.C. United, although he hails from England. If you follow international soccer you probably know him and MESSI with no problem.11D: I solved the upper right corner here pretty slowly and was unable to deduce anything from the crosses on this unexpected entry. When it finally filled in, I thought it: SON OF A!28D: This is a debut, and something I take for granted — I walk down an avenue from the subway to my home, which is blessed with late-night STREET FOOD galore. And it is possible that New York pales in comparison to Hong Kong, which has options that have been listed by Michelin and sound quite otherworldly (and EXTRA CRISPY). Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?
Manchester United and Barcelona were drawn together in the Champions League quarterfinals on Friday in Nyon, Switzerland.Between them the clubs have eight Champions League titles, Barcelona most recently in 2015 and Manchester United not since 2008.The other quarterfinals are Ajax-Juventus, Liverpool-Porto and Tottenham-Manchester City.After eliminating Real Madrid in the last round, Ajax, which has advanced further in the Champions League than any time since 2003, will now have to face Juventus, which rallied to eliminate Atlético Madrid on Tuesday behind a Ronaldo hat trick.There are four English teams in the last eight, but only Spurs and Manchester City were drawn against one another. Those are also the only teams left that have never won the European title.Manchester City, currently leading the Premier League, is the favorite to win the Champions League this season, ahead of Juventus, Barcelona and Liverpool.Liverpool is likely to be happiest with its draw; it will take on Porto, at 125-1 the longest shot left in the competition.In the semifinal, the Spurs-City winner will take on Ajax or Juventus, and the United-Barcelona winner will face Liverpool or Porto.The first legs will be played on April 9 and 10, with the return games are April 16 and 17. The final is June 1 in Madrid.The quarterfinal matchups in the second-tier Europa League are: Napoli-Arsenal, Villarreal-Valencia, Benfica-Eintracht Frankfurt and Slavia Prague-Chelsea. Chelsea is currently the bookmakers’ favorite, ahead of Napoli and Arsenal, with Slavia the outsider.
A teenage girl who did not play soccer magically became a star soccer recruit at Yale. Cost to her parents: $1.2 million.A high school boy eager to enroll at the University of Southern California was falsely deemed to have a learning disability so he could take his standardized test with a complicit proctor who would make sure he got the right score. Cost to his parents: at least $50,000.A student with no experience rowing won a spot on the U.S.C. crew team after a photograph of another person in a boat was submitted as evidence of her prowess. Her parents wired $200,000 into a special account.In a major college admissions scandal that laid bare the elaborate lengths some wealthy parents will go to get their children into competitive American universities, federal prosecutors charged 50 people on Tuesday in a brazen scheme to buy spots in the freshman classes at Yale, Stanford and other big-name schools.[The college admissions scandal has raised a lot of questions. We’ve answered them here.]Thirty-three well-heeled parents were charged in the case, including Hollywood celebrities and prominent business leaders, and prosecutors said there could be additional indictments to come.Also implicated were top college athletic coaches, who were accused of accepting millions of dollars to help admit undeserving students to a wide variety of colleges, from the University of Texas at Austin to Wake Forest and Georgetown, by suggesting they were top athletes.The parents included the television star Lori Loughlin and her husband, the fashion designer Mossimo Giannulli; the actress Felicity Huffman; and William E. McGlashan Jr., a partner at the private equity firm TPG, officials said.[Read more here about the scheme worked, from bribes to doctored photos.]The scheme unveiled Tuesday was stunning in its breadth and audacity. It was the Justice Department’s largest-ever college admissions prosecution, a sprawling investigation that involved 200 agents nationwide and resulted in charges against 50 people in six states.The charges also underscored how college admissions have become so cutthroat and competitive that some have sought to break the rules. The authorities say the parents of some of the nation’s wealthiest and most privileged students sought to buy spots for their children at top universities, not only cheating the system, but potentially cheating other hard-working students out of a chance at a college education.In many of the cases, prosecutors said, the students were not aware that their parents were doctoring their test scores and lying to get them into school. Federal prosecutors did not charge any students or universities with wrongdoing.“The parents are the prime movers of this fraud,” Andrew E. Lelling, the United States attorney for the District of Massachusetts, said Tuesday during a news conference. Mr. Lelling said that those parents used their wealth to create a separate and unfair admissions process for their children.“The real victims in this case are the hardworking students” who were displaced in the admissions process by “far less qualified students and their families who simply bought their way in,” Mr. Lelling said.At the center of the sweeping financial crime and fraud case was William Singer, the founder of a college preparatory business called the Edge College & Career Network, also known as The Key.
The scheme was as brazen as it was elaborate: Dozens of wealthy parents, according to court documents filed Tuesday, paid millions of dollars in bribes to secure the admission of their children into elite universities.Test scores were inflated, essays were falsified and photographs were doctored, all in an illicit effort to gain entry to schools such as Yale, the University of Southern California and Georgetown. [Read more on the Justice Department’s largest ever college admissions prosecution.]“We help the wealthiest families in the U.S. get their kids into school,” said William Singer, the founder of The Edge College & Career Network, in a phone call with a parent he was helping to cheat, according to the charging documents. “There is a front door which means you get in on your own. The back door is through institutional advancement, which is 10 times as much money. And I’ve created this side door in.”Here is how Mr. Singer helped dozens of parents, including high-profile Hollywood actors and wealthy business leaders, get their children into top schools, according to the charging documents. [The college admissions scandal has raised a lot of questions. We’ve answered them here.]Mr. Singer would instruct parents to seek special circumstances for their children to take the SAT or ACT, the required standardized tests for acceptance to four-year universities. Parents would use medical documentation to claim their children had a learning disability. The students would then be given a chance to take the tests in a room with only a proctor, and sometimes over two days. Then they would sign up to take the exams at either a public high school in Houston or a private college prep school in West Hollywood, two locations that Mr. Singer said he “controlled.” Mr. Singer would tell clients to come up with a reason they would be in Houston or Hollywood, such as for a bar mitzvah or a wedding.Parents paid between $15,000 and $75,000 to Mr. Singer’s company so their children could be helped in one of three ways: Someone else would take the SAT or ACT exams for the student; a person would serve as the proctor and guide the students to the right answers; or someone would review and correct the students’ answers after the tests were taken. In one case, according to the documents, Felicity Huffman, an actress, told Mr. Singer her daughter’s high school had its own exam proctor in mind.Elisabeth Kimmel, the owner of a media company, used Mr. Singer’s services twice, first for her daughter in 2012 and then for her son in 2017, according to the documents. Her daughter attended Georgetown as a purported tennis recruit, and her son was accepted to the University of Southern California as a track-and-field pole-vaulter. But he was caught off guard during orientation.According to the documents, Jane Buckingham, who owns a boutique marketing firm in Los Angeles, agreed to pay $50,000 to Mr. Singer’s company so that someone other than her son would take the ACT. But the proctor would need to write the essay portion in a handwriting that mimicked her son’s.According to the charging documents, after the exams were scored high enough so that the students became competitive applicants, the parents paid bribes — structured as donations to the university and funneled through The Key — to university coaches, who would identify their children as athletic recruits.
Zinedine Zidane knew as soon as the name flashed up on his phone. Late last week, after Real Madrid crashed out of the Champions League to Ajax and saw painful defeats to Barcelona end its hopes in both La Liga and the Copa del Rey, Florentino Pérez, the club’s president, called the man he regards as “the best coach in the world.” He asked him to come back.“And here I am,” Zidane said.Just 284 days after he left Madrid — after three Champions League titles in three years — after claiming that both he and the club needed a “change,” Zidane walked back into the media suite at the Santiago Bernabéu flanked by his wife, Veronique, Pérez, and a phalanx of Real legends.After just two phone conversations with Pérez, Zidane agreed to take charge of Real until the summer of 2022. His love for the club he had graced as both a player and a coach, he said, was too great for him to resist. “I could not say no,” he said. “I am here because the president called me.”If Pérez had known it was that simple, he might have moved to get in touch sooner. Zidane lives in Madrid; he has witnessed, firsthand, the “difficult” season his team has endured, first under Julen Lopetegui — poached from the Spanish national team on the eve of the World Cup in June, fired before Halloween — and then his replacement, the former youth team coach Santiago Solari. “I was watching my players, and I was not happy about how things were” he said.Madrid sits third in La Liga, behind not only Barcelona but also its city rival, Atlético; it is out of the Copa del Rey; and, most damaging of all, it was eliminated by Ajax in the last 16 of the Champions League last week, losing the second leg of the tie by 4-1 at home. “We are going through a difficult and complicated moment,” Pérez said. “We know what pain that brings the fans.”Little wonder, then, that Zidane — just as he did when he left Madrid, five days after lifting the third of those Champions Leagues — took to the rostrum once again speaking of the need for change. “This club is what had to and has to change,” he said. “Things have to change, in every way. We have to change for next season.”The nature of the change, though, is likely to be very different: Real must transform from a position of relative weakness, rather than strength. That is likely to mean a considerable overhaul of the playing staff: Pérez had long since accepted the need for an injection of funds into the team this coming summer, with the likes of Eden Hazard, the Chelsea forward, under consideration to join a third incarnation of the so-called Galactico project. Several high-profile members of the current squad, including Isco and Gareth Bale, may well have to be sacrificed to balance the books.The principal difference, then, is Zidane’s energy for the challenge. “I left the club because I needed it, for me, though at the time the club did not,” he said. “Since I love the president, and the club, I am here. After eight months, I want to coach again.”He has spent the last nine months, he said, “recharging my batteries, doing my things.” His list of honors, the unbroken European success he enjoyed in his first and only managerial role, ensured that he had not been short of suitors — he said he had received offers from several other teams — but none offered the emotional allure of Real.“Now I am ready to have the experience of coaching Madrid again,” he said. “They have given me the chance to be in this club once more, this club that I love very much.”
NEW YORK — Baseball's 2026 All-Star Game will be played in Philadelphia to mark the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, a person familiar with the planning told The Associated Press.The person spoke on condition of anonymity Thursday because no announcement had been made.A news conference is scheduled for Tuesday with Independence Hall as a backdrop and is to include Commissioner Rob Manfred, Phillies owner John Middleton, Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf and Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney.This will be the first All-Star Game at Citizens Bank Park, which opened in 2004. The 1976 All-Star Game was played at Veterans Stadium to mark the 200th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, and the 1996 All-Star Game also was played at the Vet, which stood in the same sports complex in South Philadelphia. The 1943 and 1952 games were at Shibe Park.This year's All-Star Game is July 9 at Cleveland's Progressive Field, which also hosted the All-Stars in 1997, when the ballpark was known as Jacobs Field. The 2020 game will be at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, site of the 1980 game. Sites for 2021-25 have not been announced.Lincoln Financial Field, adjacent to Citizens Bank Park, is among the venues under consideration to hold matches during soccer's World Cup in June and July 2026.___
CHESTER, Pa. — Jill Ellis has had three years to tinker.She knew better than anyone how quickly this summer’s Women’s World Cup would arrive, so Ellis, the United States women’s national team coach, started remaking her squad almost as soon as it crashed out of the 2016 Rio Olympics.She tinkered while her star forward signed a contract to play in France for half a season, and she tinkered when her captain signed a similar deal to join a club in England. She tinkered by bringing in new players and by dropping old ones. She tested new formations and tweaked more familiar ones, and engaged in experiments prompted by injuries, player availability and even curiosity.But Ellis said Tuesday that she is done tinkering. The players — with at least one notable exception — who are in camp for the three-game She Believes Cup, which they started with a disappointing (at least defensively) 2-2 draw against Japan on Wednesday, will form the core of the group Ellis will take to defend the United States’ world championship at the World Cup in France.There are, of course, familiar names — Alex Morgan, Megan Rapinoe, Julie Ertz, Tobin Heath — in camp. But fans who haven’t followed the team since it won its World Cup title in Canada will soon come to know several new ones, too: Rose Lavelle, Jessica McDonald, Sam Mewis, Tierna Davidson. And for the first time since 2005, the United States will enter a major tournament without Hope Solo in goal.But 100 days before the World Cup opens — a milestone that arrived on Wednesday — Ellis and her players said this week that their biggest questions already had been asked and answered.“You’ve kind of built the skeleton,” Ellis said. “Now we’re working on the nervous system.”The process has not always been pleasant. Lloyd, the star of the 2015 World Cup victory, has been eased into a supporting role, and players like Lindsey Horan and Crystal Dunn — who were not part of the 2015 team — have become nearly irreplaceable. Blessed with a wealth of speed and attacking options, Ellis toyed with a three-defender system early in the process to see if a relentless focus on getting forward would enjoy adequate cover if the ball was turned over. Spoiler: It didn’t, so she adjusted again.“I would say that it was uncomfortable,” defender Becky Sauerbrunn said of working through the evolution in real time. “And she was very honest with us and was saying she wants it to be uncomfortable.”“She said she was going to throw people into formations and into games that maybe they weren’t prepared for,” Sauerbrunn added. “And she wanted to see how they reacted, because in a World Cup you never know what you’re going to face, and you’re going to have to be able to take those challenges on and still perform well. And so I feel very strong having gone through that process.”The focus now is on polishing partnerships and connections, the “nervous system” connecting players on the field that Ellis mentioned Tuesday. Those connections were clearly lacking at times on Wednesday night, particularly in a makeshift back line that was missing the leadership and direction of an absent Sauerbrunn.“We definitely talk about relationships a lot — who you’re playing with on the sides of the field, who you’re playing with in the middle of the field, and your relationships with them,” Mewis said. “And the coaches have definitely mentioned to us that not only are they looking at individual players, they’re looking at how those players interact with the players around them.”Health issues have complicated some of those decisions. Horan, a fixture in the American midfield, will miss the She Believes Cup with a quad injury. The 20-year-old Davidson (broken ankle) and the 30-year-old Kelley O’Hara (ankle surgery) are still working their way back into top form.One of the players hoping to contend for a place in the midfield with Horan out, Danielle Colaprico, was ruled out herself this week because of a recurrence of a groin injury. Emily Fox, a young defender who had seemingly fallen out of the picture after a poor performance at left back against France in January, replaced Colaprico on the roster — but there are no guarantees Fox will go to the World Cup.“The door’s not closed for anybody,” Ellis said, though she acknowledged the time had long passed when she could afford to give a player on the fringes of the team an extended look.
In many ways, there has never been a better time to be a member of the United States women’s national hockey team.Two years after the players threatened to boycott the world championship tournament over pay equity, U.S.A. Hockey, the national governing body, is paying them more than ever, about $71,000 each annually.On the ice, the American women have continued to exceed the achievements of the men’s national team and won their second Olympic gold medal in a stirring final against Canada.Members of the team have skated in the skills competition at N.H.L. All-Star weekend and served as analysts for N.H.L. television broadcasts. Participation in the sport among girls and women is skyrocketing.But halfway through the labor contract with U.S.A. Hockey signed in March 2017, as the national team begins its pursuit of a fifth straight world championship in Finland this week, its players wonder whether the future of their sport is as bright as the present. Those concerns grew after the Canadian Women’s Hockey League, one of two professional leagues in North America, announced Sunday it would fold in May.Although the American players negotiated gains in salary and travel and medical benefits two years ago, the “groundbreaking support” for girls and women’s hockey promised by U.S.A. Hockey in the contract has been slow to develop. The Women’s High Performance Advisory Group created in the deal has been largely invisible. Minimal promotion for the team and a lack of organizational diversity in U.S.A. Hockey also raise concerns from players and female alumni that little has changed.“People are drooling for women’s hockey,” forward Kendall Coyne Schofield said in an interview late last year. “But the product we deliver isn’t being shown. There’s been a lot of lost opportunities, a lot of opportunities that haven’t been capitalized on.”Those opportunities included high-profile media appearances before the Olympics like a national magazine feature, a major network documentary series and other live television offers, which U.S.A. Hockey declined, according to three people with direct knowledge of those projects. After the Olympics, some players were unaware that they were eligible for four-figure bonuses offered by Hershey’s for winning the gold medal.U.S.A. Hockey’s executive director, Pat Kelleher, was not made available for an interview to discuss the women’s national team.After the Olympics, the women’s team embarked on a weeklong national media tour, but players were frustrated that there were no plans for a post-Olympic exhibition tour. In an interview late last year, forward Hilary Knight lamented that the team disappeared when its popularity was at its highest.Because of the talent disparity between North American teams and the rest of the world, there are not many viable opponents for the Americans, and Canada’s cooperation is necessary. Last month, the two nations finally staged a three-game exhibition series, with one game in the United States. An announced crowd of 9,048 fans attended the game in Detroit, which was also broadcast live on NHL Network.But other avenues to increase exposure do not need Canadian co-signs, like merchandising. Nike, the official apparel supplier of U.S.A. Hockey and a company that champions equality in advertisements, does not sell jerseys of American women’s players or products specifically featuring female players. Neither does U.S.A. Hockey’s online store.Coyne Schofield, one of the players who has been featured by the N.H.L. since the Olympics, is inundated with inquiries from parents about where they can buy apparel with her name. She has memorized a response with detailed instructions on how to purchase customized men’s items, even down to the six-week shipping time frame. That’s how Knight obtained replicas of her jersey for her family.“That alone is so degrading,” Coyne Schofield said. “There’s no reason why anybody shouldn’t be able to go on usahockey.com and buy a Hilary Knight jersey, my jersey. Right now, women’s hockey is not accessible to consumers. It needs to be accessible in every fashion.”Nike, which recently unveiled soccer kits for the 2019 Women’s World Cup that for the first time were specifically designed for women’s teams, did not respond to requests to discuss its women’s hockey apparel.
TORONTO — The Maple Leafs superstars John Tavares and Auston Matthews have been as good as advertised this season, and often even better.But Mitch Marner, who came to this championship-starved city with high expectations after he was chosen with the No. 4 overall pick in 2015, has had a breakout year and made a case that he’s the most valuable Maple Leafs forward.Marner, a 21-year-old winger, led Toronto in points this season and became the youngest player in Maple Leafs history to record 90 points, the first to hit that benchmark in 22 years.Marner finished 11th in the N.H.L. with 94 points (26 goals and 68 assists), six points ahead of Tavares and 21 ahead of Matthews, who missed 14 games because of injury. Marner and Tavares play on the same line, and Marner was a key reason Tavares, in his first season in Toronto, had a career-high 47 goals this season.[N.H.L. playoffs: first-round schedule and results]Tavares, Matthews and Marner, along with goaltender Frederik Andersen, will need to be at their best as the Maple Leafs seek postseason redemption against the Boston Bruins, their first-round opponent for the second straight season. Their best-of-seven series starts Thursday in Boston.The wounds remain fresh from last spring’s opening round, when Toronto coughed up a 4-3 second-period lead and lost, 7-4, in a shocking conclusion to Game 7.But last season the Leafs didn’t have Tavares, the longtime Islanders star. His signing to a seven-year, $77 million contract as a free agent last summer created hope in a city long accustomed to hockey failure. The Leafs haven’t won the Stanley Cup since 1967 and haven’t won a playoff series since 2004.Although Marner can’t match Tavares or Matthews in goal-scoring ability, he has wowed everyone with his vision.“The one thing about Marner,” Tampa Bay Lightning Coach Jon Cooper said, “is he is as smart a player as this league has not only seen this year, but has ever seen.”Marner attributes his creativity to playing multiple sports as a youth. Soccer helped develop his footwork, and lacrosse was important in developing his hands and mobility around the goal area.“Both soccer and lacrosse are creative in their own ways,” Marner said. “In soccer, I was a midfielder so I did a lot of the running up and down the field, and lacrosse-wise I think it helped with the hands a lot. It’s a different kind of motion in lacrosse for trying to get around guys, so I think that helped as well.”Born in Markham, Ontario, north of Toronto, Marner evokes comparisons to Patrick Kane and Johnny Gaudreau, other elusive, flashy stickhandlers. But in these parts, the 6-foot, 175 pound Marner is more reminiscent of Doug Gilmour, another smallish Maple Leafs forward who brought a heart and joy to the game.“He’s skilled, explosive and wants the puck and sees the ice so well,” said Gilmour, who believes Marner will someday break his franchise record for assists in a season, 95.Tavares said Marner has talked to him on the bench about the patterns he saw opponents employing.
PARIS — French TV group TF1 will exclusively broadcast the 2019 Rugby World Cup in France, it said on Wednesday, lifting the shares of the country's major TV broadcaster."After the success of previous editions, notably during the 2011 final between France and the All Blacks with 17.8 million viewers and 87 percent of audience share, TF1 Group will offer the French audience all 48 matches of the 2019 Rugby World Cup," TF1 said in a statement.TF1 shares were up 4.1 percent at 0750 GMT, and were the best performers on Paris' SBF-120 index, as analysts and fund managers welcomed the contract win."Given the sluggishness of the overall advertising market, any bit of good news regarding TV advertising is going to be well received by the market. In that context, winning exclusive rights for the Rugby World Cup - even if it's not as big as the soccer World Cup - is a good bit of news for TF1," said Gregoire Laverne, fund manager at Roche Brune Asset Management.France will go into this year's Rugby World Cup in Japan, which takes place from September through to November, on the back of a poor Six Nations tournament.Jacques Brunel, the coach of "Les Bleus", believes his team can iron out their problems before the World Cup but another disappointing Six Nations campaign suggested it would be an achievement for them to reach the knockout rounds in Japan.France beat Scotland and Italy in the Six Nations but were thrashed by England and Ireland, and their second-half collapse against Wales showed their mental fragility. (Additional reporting by Blandine Henault; Editing by Richard Lough and Mark Potter)
(Reuters) - Nike Inc's long-time brand ambassador Tiger Woods gave investors another reason to cheer on Monday, after the world's biggest name in golf won the Masters, pushing the company's stock higher.In his signature red shirt and black shoes with the Nike "swoosh" logo, the 43-year-old came back from a series of setbacks to claim his fifth Green Jacket on Sunday, ending an 11-year major title drought."A win for a high profile endorser is a clear win for the brand," Nomura Instinet analyst Simeon Siegel said.Nike celebrated his victory by posting an ad on its website titled "Tiger Woods: Same Dream," which has received nearly 500,000 views on YouTube in less than a day.President Donald Trump praised the win, tweeting: "Love people who are great under pressure. What a fantastic life comeback for a really great guy!"Nike and Woods forged a partnership that dates back more than two decades through good times and bad publicity. The brand already has a celebrated pool of endorsers, including tennis star Serena Williams, basketball phenom LeBron James, soccer stars Cristiano Ronaldo and Neymar Jr, as well as golfers Francesco Molinari and Brooks Koepka. While not transformational, Woods' win should provide a boost to Nike's golf apparel business, marketing consultancy firm Metaforce co-founder Allen Adamson said."His win is good for golf and its good for Nike," he said. Nike's shares were up about 1 percent at $87 Monday morning. (Reporting by Nivedita Balu and Uday Sampath Kumar in Bengaluru; Editing by Anil D'Silva)
COPENHAGEN — Chinese pandas Xing Er and Mao Sun are settling into their new home at Copenhagen Zoo.Their 160 million Danish crowns ($24 million) enclosure was opened to the public on Thursday by Denmark's Crown Princess Mary after the animals were officially welcomed on Wednesday. "We're enjoying the sun today - it couldn't be better. A lot of guests will come today to see the real life pandas," the Australian-born princess told reporters on Thursday."That a zoo has pandas is unique and can be compared to advancing in the Champions League," zoo spokesperson Jacob Munkholm Hoeck said, likening it to the elite soccer tournament.The zoo is hoping to start a breeding programme with the animals."We have a female panda named Mao Sun and a male panda called Xing Er and they are five and six years old ... In the wild they live on their own, just like here. But once every year when the female is on heat, we'll bring them together and then we hope they can make panda babies," the spokesman said. Queen Margrethe cut the ribbon on the animals' new enclosure during a ceremony on Wednesday which drew a small number of protesters. A few protesters waving Tibetan flags were also gathered outside of the zoo on Thursday. Danish-Chinese relations have improved markedly since a low point 10 years ago, when Prime Minister Lars Lokke Rasmussen met the Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, who Beijing brands as a dangerous separatist.Copenhagen Zoo, which hit the headlines for the killing and public dissection of a healthy giraffe five years ago, has become the 27th of the world's around 10,000 zoos to have pandas, and the ninth in Europe.  ($1 = 6.6404 Danish crowns)  (Reporting by Teis Jensen; Editing by Alison Williams)
FRONT PAGEAn article on Sunday about the impact of child care on Japanese women’s careers described incorrectly employment statistics for women in Japan. The proportion of working women employed part time is close to half, not more than half, and the proportion on temporary contracts is more than half, not about a third.INTERNATIONALA headline with an article on Monday about the discovery of the wreckage of the aircraft that crashed carrying the Argentine soccer striker Emiliano Sala referred incorrectly to the plane. As the article correctly stated, it was a single-engine, propeller-driven airplane, not a jet.ARTSAn entry on Monday in the “What’s on TV” highlights described incorrectly the debut episode of “Elvis Goes There.” It opens with a visit to London with the actor and director Paul Feig, not a visit to Oakland, Calif., with the director Ryan Coogler.•An article on Sept. 21 about Maroon 5’s scheduled appearance in Sunday’s Super Bowl halftime show misstated the name of the band’s song with Cardi B. It is “Girls Like You,” not “Girls Like Us.” (The correction was delayed, because it was only recently brought to the attention of the editor.)Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.


MANCHESTER, England — Some soccer players in England boycotting social media in a protest against racism were targeted with abuse for posting about the 24-hour campaign.Talks with the social media companies are now being urgently sought by the Professional Footballers' Association, which coordinated the "Enough" campaign to demand a crackdown on racism by the platforms.There was silence on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram from many players from 0800 GMT Friday for 24 hours."Yesterday, some members received racist abuse on their #Enough posts. When these incidents were reported, the response from social networks was — again — unacceptable," the PFA said in a statement. "In the coming days, we will be inviting players to report any racist abuse they have received to us. We will collate it and share it with social platforms to demonstrate the impact of their lack of action.""We will be requesting meetings with each of the social platforms as a matter of priority," the PFA said. "Meetings with the Football Association and government are planned for next month. This is a first step in a larger player-led campaign to tackle racism and demand meaningful change."The boycott was advocated by Tottenham defender Danny Rose, who was targeted with monkey noises while playing for England in Montenegro last month, and Manchester United defender Chris Smalling, who called for more stringent regulation of posts on social media.Social media companies did not appear to respond on their networks to the players' concerns despite widespread coverage and support from FIFA for the boycott.Twitter did not respond to an email from The Associated Press requesting comment and Facebook, which also owns Instagram, provided a statement that did not directly address the players' concerns."We will remove hate speech or credible threats of any kind, and we encourage anyone who sees content they find offensive to report it so we can remove anything that breaks our community standards," Facebook said by email. "We have developed a range of tools that allow users to moderate and filter the content that people put on their pages including; hiding or deleting comments, blocking certain words, turning on a profanity filter, and banning people."___
Less than a month after the New England Patriots won the Super Bowl, a group of Massachusetts lawmakers has proposed a bill that would ban organized youth tackle football until after seventh grade.The bill, which moved to the Massachusetts legislature’s Joint Committee on Public Health this week, follows unsuccessful attempts by legislators in five other states to pass similar measures to protect growing brains from traumatic injury.The bipartisan bill, known as No Hits, would impose financial penalties for any school league or other entity that does not comply.“There is significant science detailing repetitive head impacts have long-term neurological consequences, especially when they occur during brain development,” one of the bill’s sponsors, Representative Paul A. Schmid III, a Democrat, said in a statement.Although some medical professionals and former N.F.L. players have signaled their support for the measure and public opinion could buoy its prospects, the bill is already facing headwinds.Two representatives who initially supported the measure have withdrawn their names from the bill, and a few other legislators said they would not support it.“Should we ban youth soccer too?” asked Representative David Nangle, a Democrat who opposes the bill. “Or youth hockey? When do we stop legislating into areas that we shouldn’t be?”A spokeswoman for U.S.A. Football, which governs youth football, said in a statement that the organization believes that decisions on allowing children to play football are “best left to parents.” To that end, she said, it has created a set of guidelines developed by leaders in athlete development and football.The executive director of Pop Warner, Jon Butler, said in a statement that the organization had worked to improve player safety by eliminating the three-point stance and removing kickoffs for younger athletes. “Banning football is not the answer, but we do agree that we should continue our efforts to make the game safer for our kids,” he said.Studies by Boston University and other research centers have shown that children who began playing tackle football before the age of 12 were at greater risk for cognitive, mood and behavioral issues later in life, as well as conditions like chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease linked to repeated hits to the head.But there has been opposition to those findings from the N.F.L. and even from well-intentioned parents, said Michael Kaplen, a lawyer who teaches a legal course on traumatic brain injury and tracks legislation governing youth tackle football. Mr. Kaplen said that there was no such thing as safer tackling and that a youth league’s promoting safer tackling would be similar to big tobacco companies’ offering low-nicotine cigarettes.“People don’t understand that even a minor blow to the head has risks,” he said. “It may take years for these problems to become unmasked.”Steve Dembowski, 49, an executive board member of the Massachusetts High School Football Coaches Association, said parents, rather than the state, should be able to make choices for their children.“Considering that kids at that age get concussions playing soccer and baseball and any other sport where they can fall and hit their head on the ground,” he said, “it seems like an overstep of authority.”Damon Stanton, 43, has two sons who play football, and he coaches youth football in Hanson, Mass., about 25 miles south of Boston.
COSTA MESA, Calif. — Dean Spanos is breathing a sigh of relief.Spanos, owner of the Los Angeles Chargers, has been criticized relentlessly for moving his team out of San Diego — into a soccer stadium, no less — and for the tepid reception the team has received in its new home 100 or so miles north.But in sports, winning is the ultimate elixir, and the Chargers (and their new crosstown rivals, the Rams) are winning.The Chargers went a surprising 12-4 this season, including victories in Seattle, Pittsburgh and Kansas City. They will face the Patriots in Foxborough, Mass. on Sunday.The wins come at a critical time for the team, which has started selling seat licenses to would-be season-ticket holders in the new, 70,000-seat stadium the Chargers will share with the Rams beginning in 2020.In an interview at the team’s training facility this week, Spanos said that the Chargers’ success was helping generate interest in the team, but that winning over fans in Los Angeles was a long-term project.On the team’s decision to play temporarily in a 27,000-seat soccer stadium“Just being able to get around the stadium, the amenities, all the game-day experience is important, and I think it’s appreciated.”On the sale of seat licenses for season tickets in the new stadium“We’re probably where we thought we would be, and playing well really helps. Timing is everything. It kind of jumps every time [we win]. Monday mornings are great when you win in the playoffs.”On the decision to price seat licenses as low as $100“We gave up a little, but enough to make it more affordable. Once we get them there, it’s more important than trying to make another 25 or 30 bucks a ticket. And that really helps you establish yourself in the market.”On the Chargers’ commitment to the market“There’s no doubt we’re the Los Angeles Chargers. Los Angeles is our home.”On competing with the Rams and whether the city can support two N.F.L. teams
SEOUL, South Korea — Wildfires fanned by strong winds raged through hills and villages along the northeastern coast of South Korea on Thursday night and Friday morning, scorching hundreds of homes and forcing thousands to evacuate as the government declared a national disaster.By Friday afternoon, tens of thousands of firefighters, police officers and soldiers had managed to contain the largest fires, which left at least one person dead, officials said.Most of the 4,000 people who had fled homes on Thursday, creating chaotic traffic jams along narrow mountain roads, returned by Friday, the government said.President Moon Jae-in declared the wildfires a national disaster on Friday, instructing his government to direct all necessary manpower and resources to fight the flames and provide relief for distressed villagers.Mr. Moon also asked his government to consider designating the affected area a special disaster zone so that victims there could get discounts on medical and national insurance premiums, as well as other government subsidies. His government has previously declared five disaster zones in the past two years in the aftermath of floods, earthquakes and typhoons.This week’s wildfires have burned an estimated 1,297 acres of wooded land, the equivalent of over 730 soccer fields.The fires were believed to have been started by sparks from an electric transformer that was shaken by strong winds on Thursday, according to officials at the National Fire Agency.As flames raced downhill, villagers and teenagers on field trips in the area were evacuated to schools in nearby towns. More than 50 schools in the region asked their students to stay home on Friday.The region is close to the border with North Korea and near where South Korea hosted the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics. The blaze was one of the worst wildfires since 2005, when 2,400 acres of wooded land, as well as a centuries-old Buddhist temple, were destroyed on the east coast.
“Combat Obscura” opens with multiple disclaimers stating that nothing onscreen reflects official policy or has Defense Department endorsement. Given that the next moment the screen shows an explosion — and someone shouts “that’s the wrong building!” — the reason for the warnings is immediately apparent.As a United States Marine in Afghanistan, Miles Lagoze, the director, worked as a videographer, documenting scenes of war for official release. (We see a clip of such material on CNN midway through the film.) Somehow, Lagoze kept his hands on unreleased footage he and others shot in Afghanistan in 2011 and 2012, and made it the basis for this film.He presents these outtakes with minimal orientation. One through line is the mutual incomprehension between Americans and Afghans. Early on, a Marine believes an Afghan child has warned him about a bomb. He radios a translator, who listens to the boy and says he was simply trying to bum a cigarette.The Marines round up men at a gathering but ultimately release them. One American thinks it “looked like a Taliban meeting,” though the movie suggests reasons to doubt that.Later, the Marines examine a body, and one asks aloud whether they have just killed a shopkeeper. (“This is no good for people to see,” another says.) In these scenes, the decision to forgo context is powerful and troubling.The film also shows the Marines, none formally identified, during lulls, goofing off and getting high. (“Luckily for us, Afghanistan’s a hash farm,” one says.) There is optimism — a soccer game with Afghan children — and quick work tending the wounded. Leaning in to the style its patchwork of source material requires, “Combat Obscura,” is an eye-opening dispatch from a conflict mired in confusion.
WASHINGTON — A rat falling out of the arena hallway ceiling during the Carolina Hurricanes' warmup game of soccer was just a precursor to a wacky afternoon of playoff hockey.Long after the dead rodent was removed, Game 2 between the Hurricanes and Washington Capitals included a questionable ejection for a check to the head, a shot off one goalie's mask and another that went in off the other goalie's backside. It fittingly ended with an overtime goal from an unlikely source that sent the defending Stanley Cup champions into a wild celebration around the team's most popular player.Veteran leader Brooks Orpik scored 1:48 into overtime Saturday to give Washington a 4-3 victory and a 2-0 lead over Carolina in the first-round series. His fourth goal in his 151st playoff game was his third winner, and Orpik became just the 11th defenseman in NHL history with two postseason overtime goals."I'm probably not counted on for too many goals, but I think if you want to have the long runs, you need everybody kind of chipping in and doing things they don't normally do," Orpik said. "Always feels good when the team comes out on top."The Capitals came out on top thanks to Alex Ovechkin's two perfect passes, a 5-on-3 penalty kill and a stick shortage by Carolina that allowed Evgeny Kuznetsov to find Orpik for his goal. Afterward, owner Ted Leonsis quipped, "Just like it was drawn up."There was no way to script the strange happenings that unfolded on and off the ice. Perhaps it was an omen for things to come when the ball used in the Hurricanes' pregame soccer ritual knocked a rat down from the ceiling."I saw that," Carolina's Sebastian Aho said. "First time I've seen it. Kind of odd."Then the game happened. Just like Game 1, the Capitals jumped out to an early 2-0 lead — this time on goals by Nicklas Backstrom and T.J. Oshie — but this time the Hurricanes didn't wait until the third period to come back.Lucas Wallmark scored late in the first after teammate Saku Maenalanen brushed Braden Holtby, which Capitals coach Todd Reirden challenged for goaltender interference. It held up because the NHL situation room and referees determined the contact wasn't significant enough to disallow the goal."Playing the position, you know that that's interference," said Holtby, who made 25 saves. "But there's a point in hockey where you've just got to battle, too. I'm not going to complain about a call or no-call. I know that doing that is giving me the best chance to stop that puck. We move on."Things only got stranger in the second period. Less than a minute after exiting the penalty box, Hurricanes forward Micheal Ferland hit Nic Dowd while bent over and was given a five-minute match penalty for an illegal check to the head and ejected.After officials conferred and decided to make it a five-minute major, coach Rod Brind'Amour screamed at referee Steve Kozari that it was a clean hit, pointing to his hip to emphasize Ferland made mostly hip to shoulder contact. Dowd left to go through concussion protocol but returned."To be honest with you, I let up," said Ferland, who added he doesn't expect to be suspended. "I could have finished with my shoulder, but I didn't. I came, hit him with my butt. I thought it was a clean hit. I don't agree with the call."During the ensuing power play, a one-timer from defenseman John Carlson hit Hurricanes goaltender Petr Mrazek on the right side of his mask and knocked it off. Mrazek winced in pain but did not get pulled for concussion protocol and stayed in the game."It caught me a little bit on the chin there," said Mrazek, who made 29 saves. "When I fell, I didn't have the mask on and I hit the ice pretty hard with my face. That was the worst."
MINNEAPOLIS — The plains of West Texas are a long way from the bustling piazzas and porticos of northern Italy, where Davide Moretti was raised in a soccer culture and basketball was just a niche.But NBA fans in Italy can now look to the likes of Danilo Gallinari and his 20-point scoring average for the Los Angeles Clippers in a league that has made major strides in Europe since Moretti was born in Bologna 21 years ago.The college game, however, has been a decidedly foreign concept overseas, though, with the term March Madness likely to elicit strange looks even if correctly translated.Well, there's hardly been an NCAA championship with more of a global presence than this one, with Moretti's Texas Tech Red Raiders facing the Virginia Cavaliers in the title game Monday night. Eight players are from other countries.Moretti, the sophomore starting guard for Texas Tech , once played on an Italian junior national team with Virginia forward Francesco Badocchi, who has redshirted his first season."We're the first Italian guys who have ever made it to the Final Four," Moretti said, "so it's kind of a big-time thing right now back in Italy for basketball."According to data calculated by digital content producer Hero Sports, of the 1,036 players in this year's NCAA Tournament, 117 listed a home country other than the United States. Canada (23) contributed the most, followed by Australia (14). Seventeen other countries produced at least two players, including seven from African nations.For an American kid, a shooting session in the driveway after dinner could naturally include a singing of "One Shining Moment" and an idyllic vision of cutting down the nets at the national championship game. Not so much in other countries, where the presence of soccer and the significant time zone difference have long been more than enough to keep college basketball in the dark."When the games are on, it's usually when we're at school and stuff like that so we don't get to watch it because we're doing other things," said Kody Stattmann, another Virginia redshirt and a native of Australia.Starting forward Mamadi Diakite, whose buzzer-beating shot sent the Cavaliers to overtime in the Elite Eight where they outlasted Purdue, has become a national hero in Guinea. In Africa, though, his family and friends have to settle for watching replays."The day after the game, I get texts about it," Diakite said.For many of these international players, then, the desire to drape a gold, silver or bronze medal around their neck can be a bigger goal than winning an NCAA title with their college teams, as exhilarating as that can be."Playing in an Olympics is something that everybody dreams of," said Moretti, who will try to make the Italian national team for the FIBA World Cup this summer.Moretti played on junior teams in European and world championships, burnishing his credentials as one of the top international prospects before choosing Texas Tech over Indiana, Connecticut and Utah.Badocchi moved to the U.S. earlier to further develop his game in high school in Kansas, his mother's home state. Her work in the fashion industry brought her to Milan, where she met Badocchi's father.

For Arike Ogunbowale, the trip to the top of the Empire State Building on Wednesday was unusually fast.It had been arranged for her to bypass the lines and take express elevators to the observatory on the morning she was to become a professional basketball player. In the hours leading to the 2019 W.N.B.A. draft, these kinds of experiences did not faze Ogunbowale. Not after she had become one of the most recognizable faces in college basketball after hitting a pair of buzzer-beaters for Notre Dame in last year’s Final Four — one to slay Connecticut, the other to best Mississippi State and win the national championship.“Nah, I’m used to life throwing new things at me now,” Ogunbowale said with a smile as she looked out over the New York skyline.Even for the relentless Ogunbowale, the past week has brought a particular kind of whiplash.On Wednesday night, the Dallas Wings selected her fifth in the draft, after the Las Vegas Aces took her college teammate Jackie Young with the top pick.“You know, Dallas is a great place, and they have a great coach there, so I’m really excited,” Ogunbowale said, referring to Brian Agler, who has won the league title with teams in Seattle and Los Angeles. “I’m ready to get started.”The draft followed her vintage set of performances in this season’s Final Four: 23 points in another win over Connecticut, and a game-high 31 points in the national title game against Baylor. Ogunbowale’s final shots came after a drive to the basket that yielded two free throws in the waning seconds, her team trailing by 2 points.Then, the unthinkable: a miss. And a championship lost. Ogunbowale’s painful moment played out on the national stage, too, amplified in part by her previous success. Her mother, Yolanda, raced down from the stands after the game to reassure her, to say how proud she was.“Over time, she’s going to realize that she won’t be defined by that moment,” Yolanda said Wednesday, hours before her daughter would hear her name called at the W.N.B.A. draft at Nike’s New York headquarters. “I was just hurting for her, and for her teammates, because they wanted it so bad.”And there would be no time to process. A late Sunday night game turned into a Monday morning flight to South Bend, Ind., where Ogunbowale has one more class to complete at Notre Dame before she graduates.Then it was onto New York, to see the realization of a professional dream that dates back to high school in Wisconsin, though first Ogunbowale had to choose basketball over soccer. (Oddly enough, Baylor recruited her for soccer.) She and her mother both say she could have gone pro in that, too. Confidence, backed up by results, runs in the family.The path Ogunbowale chose has worked out pretty well. Over these last few days, her strength and her network of fans have fed off each other. Yolanda said Arike’s bubbly personality had drawn people into her orbit since she was a little girl.Fans recognized her at the airport as she headed back to school, and some approached to cheer her up. People took notice, too, up on the Empire State Building observation deck. For Ogunbowale, it is becoming clearer that everyone still sees in her that dynamic personality, that same person who hit buzzer-beaters, who scored 55 in a high school game, who can count LeBron James and Kobe Bryant among her fans.“Kobe, LeBron, all of them, they’ve missed some important shots in their lifetime,” Ogunbowale said. “It’s a part of the game, you know? I’m not going to be able to make every shot. So I’m glad about my career, and I think I had a great four years. Everybody’s been telling me that. I mean, that’s just one shot. But what you’ve done these four years for the program, for just women’s basketball in general, is big.”How big? After the loss, Bryant reached out directly to encourage her. There seems to be something about Ogunbowale that make people root for her (unless they are part of the Connecticut faithful, that is).
The Obie Award-winning actress Quincy Tyler Bernstine got married last September on a rooftop in Brooklyn, but the honeymoon to St. Kitts had to wait. One of the most valuable performers in some of the boldest new Off Broadway work, she can seem almost omnipresent on New York stages. You might assume a show got in the way.Nope. At least, not directly.“I had jury duty,” Ms. Bernstine said the other afternoon in her dressing room at Lincoln Center Theater. “And I had postponed it so many times, because of plays, that I had to go.”So in January, she was fresh from her honeymoon when she went into rehearsals for Jackie Sibblies Drury’s fractured, time-jumping biographical epic “Marys Seacole,” at LCT3. She plays the title role, a formidable woman based on a historical figure, the adventuring 19th-century Jamaican nurse Mary Seacole. (The plural in the title hints at universality.)It’s a mammoth part with monologues that stretch on and on, and Ms. Drury wrote it with her in mind. But on about day two of rehearsals, Ms. Bernstine looked at a calendar and panicked. There wasn’t going to be nearly enough time.Spoiler: She figured it out, splendidly. Ben Brantley, in a glittering review in The New York Times, deemed her “fabulous,” “commanding” and “delightfully intimidating.”In that first week of rehearsals, though, she found herself in tears every evening, walking the few blocks from the theater to CNN, where her husband, Rick Hall, is a cameraman who covers breaking news.“I would go, and he would meet me in front of the building, and I would cry,” she said. “I would wake up in the morning: Cry. This has never happened before. I didn’t know how I was going to do this.”That reaction was understandable, said her director, Lileana Blain-Cruz, given that Ms. Bernstine had to deliver five pages of monologue in one scene and seven in another.“That’s enough to make anybody’s head trip,” Ms. Blain-Cruz said. “Even though she was terrified, that terror was so beautifully, privately contained. She didn’t allow it to contaminate the room.”Ms. Bernstine calls “Marys Seacole” the most challenging thing she has ever worked on. It pushed her, she said, “almost to the brink of wanting to give up.”“The jobs that are, I think, in the end most worth it are the ones that almost break you,” she continued with perfect calm. “That sounds horrible, doesn’t it,” she said. It wasn’t meant as a question.[What’s new onstage and off: Sign up for our Theater Update newsletter]This is the kind of career Ms. Bernstine has built, gravitating toward brainy work that challenges conventions and stretches forms — plays like Anne Washburn’s “Mr. Burns, a Post-Electric Play” (she played Bart Simpson), Heidi Schreck’s “Grand Concourse” and Bess Wohl’s “Small Mouth Sounds.”She won her Obie in Lynn Nottage’s “Ruined,” and made her only Broadway appearance so far in Sarah Ruhl’s “In the Next Room, or the vibrator play.” Last season, eager to work with the director Phylicia Rashad on a Stephen Adly Guirgis revival, she went unusually brassy in “Our Lady of 121st Street.”
Chelsea has paid Borussia Dortmund $73 million to complete the signing of Christian Pulisic, making the 20-year-old the most expensive American player in history by some distance.Though moving to the Premier League has “always been Christian’s dream,” according to Dortmund’s technical director, Michael Zorc, Pulisic will have to wait six months for it to be realized. He will spend the remainder of this season on loan at the Bundesliga leader, before joining up with Maurizio Sarri’s team in the summer.In a heartfelt statement posted on Twitter on Wednesday morning, Pulisic thanked the German club for the “opportunities” it had offered him since he arrived as a “raw, excited, very nervous but exceptionally proud 16-year-old from a small American town called Hershey.”He said it had been an “honor and a dream” to play for the club, and a “privilege” to experience the support of Dortmund’s fans. He told fans there was no need to doubt his “passion, determination and 110 percent commitment” as Dortmund attempt to win a first German title since 2013.He had, however, made it clear in recent months both to Zorc and Hans-Joachim Watzke, Dortmund’s chief executive, that he did not intend to extend his contract — due to expire in 2020 — at Signal Iduna Park. Instead, he had set his heart on moving to England, something related to his “American background,” according to Zorc. “Against that background, we have decided to accept an extremely lucrative bid from Chelsea,” Zorc said.The fee — more than three times the amount Wolfsburg paid Hertha Berlin for John Brooks, the German-born U.S. international, in 2017 — makes Pulisic the third most expensive player in Chelsea’s history, and the third most expensive player ever purchased from a Bundesliga team.It represents something of a success for Dortmund given that Pulisic has started just five of the team’s Bundesliga fixtures this season, having recovered from injury to find the likes of Jadon Sancho and Jacob Bruun Larsen blocking his path. He has started more regularly in the Champions League, featuring in all but one of Dortmund’s group games as the German team qualified with ease for the competition’s last 16.For Chelsea, though, Pulisic’s appeal had not faded. Aside from the likely marketing benefits of employing the most high-profile American player of his generation, Marina Granovskaia, the director who oversees the Premier League team’s transfer activity, described the signing as something of a coup for Pulisic’s on-field qualities.“Christian has shown his quality during a fantastic spell in Germany and at just 20, we believe he has the potential to become an important Chelsea player for many years to come,” Granovskaia said. “We look forward to welcoming him to Stamford Bridge in the summer and wish him and Dortmund every success for the remainder of the season.”Pulisic described the chance to sign for such a “legendary club” as a “privilege,” and said he “looked forward to being a contributor to their team of world-class players.”Whether Chelsea’s most obviously world-class player — Eden Hazard — remains in place when Pulisic arrives, though, remains open to question. The Belgian has admitted on several occasions that he is tempted by the prospect of a move to Real Madrid at the end of the season, though he has not agreed terms with the Spanish team and Real have not so much as submitted an offer to Chelsea, let alone had a bid accepted.Even if Hazard — whose contract also expires in 2020 — chooses to stay, the signing of Pulisic is likely to herald the departure of Willian and/or Pedro, despite the fact that Sarri has increasingly relied on playing both of them as he seeks to earn a place in the Champions League in his first year in charge at Stamford Bridge.Both are now in their 30s — Chelsea has a policy of not offering long deals to players approaching the end of their careers — and will be out of contract in 2020, too. Though Pulisic is not necessarily a like-for-like replacement for any of them, his arrival suggests Chelsea is starting to contemplate a long-anticipated overhaul of its squad as it seeks a way to keep pace with the likes of Manchester City and Liverpool.
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherNew Zealand is holding a national day of remembrance today for the 50 people killed in the mosque shootings in Christchurch. Our colleague spent several days with one family of one man who died in the attack. [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.]On today’s episode:Background reading:Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.
Note: Our Sixth Annual 15-Second Vocabulary Video Challenge is underway. It will run until Feb. 18._________The word paltry has appeared in 88 articles on NYTimes.com in the past year, including on Jan. 17 in “Politics Looms Over Empty Seats as Saudi Arabia Faces Qatar in Asian Cup” by Tariq Panja:_________The Word of the Day and the quiz question have been provided by Vocabulary.com. Learn more and see usage examples across a range of subjects in the Vocabulary.com Dictionary.
SYDNEY — Sydney FC's top of the table A-League clash against Perth Glory this month has been moved away from the Sydney Cricket Ground after a furore over the 'dangerous' pitch at the iconic stadium during the weekend.Australia's players' union joined Melbourne Victory boss Kevin Muscat in slamming the SCG pitch after visiting midfielder Terry Antonis suffered a knee injury during a match against Sydney FC on Saturday night.Head of Leagues Greg O'Rourke said that although the Football Federation Australia (FFA) considered the surface to be "playable and safe", the April 18 fixture would be moved to Jubilee Oval "in the best interests of all stakeholders"."The SCG's (cricket) wicket block ... compromises the uniformity of the field for football in particular," he said in a joint statement with Sydney FC and the SCG. Antonis fell to the ground untouched on the edge of the cricket square during a 2-1 loss for his side in a clash between the last two Australian champions.Professional Footballers Australia (PFA) called for an independent investigation into how the match was allowed to go ahead given the 'deplorable state' of the pitch, which the body said posed a clear danger to player safety.The SCG is being used by soccer, rugby league and rugby union teams in addition to hosting its usual cricket and Australian Rules matches while the neighbouring Sydney Football Stadium (SFS) is re-built. Some 3,000 square metres of turf were relaid after the surface was torn up during a rugby union match last month.Sydney FC travel to city rivals Western Sydney Wanderers next weekend but are assured of still being in second place behind Perth, who are six points clear at the top of the A-League, going into the match the following week. "This is a hugely important fixture with first playing second and we want the narrative to be about the football," Sydney FC Chief Executive Danny Townsend said."This is a decision made in the viewing interest of members and supporters."The SCG has hosted test cricket since 1882 and was the venue for hundreds of rugby league and union matches before the SFS was completed in 1988.  (Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly in Mumbai; editing by Nick Mulvenney)
A dozen years ago, the University of Washington barred athletic coaches from having contact with anyone in the admissions department.With a move that now seems prescient, two new administrators supervising athletics sought to allay any concerns that coaches could put undue pressure on admissions personnel. The change also brought more oversight to athletics, in this case through a committee of senior faculty members, deans and other university representatives.The previous arrangement, said Philip Ballinger, an associate vice provost now overseeing admissions, “didn’t have sufficient transparency; it didn’t have enough eyes on it.”The leeway coaches get in recruiting has long been a point of discussion in higher education circles. But after federal investigators last week revealed a broad admissions cheating scandal, a number of colleges began asking hard questions about how they evaluate athletic applicants and oversee the chosen few whom coaches recommend for admission.In what prosecutors described as the biggest case of admissions fraud they had investigated, 50 people were accused in a scheme that involved paying bribes to coaches and to people who monitor admissions tests in order to fraudulently get the children of wealthy patrons into some of the nation’s most elite colleges.Some students were accepted as recruited athletes even though they did not play the sports described in their applications. They gained an advantage through the widespread practice of allocating a certain number of admissions spots to athletes who might not get in otherwise.This process has been followed for decades in the pursuit of competitive teams, which burnish a university’s reputation, inspire alumni loyalty and often help with fund-raising.Now, the fraud case has sent a thunderbolt through the higher education community.“Every college president in America called his athletic director the morning after that admissions fraud story broke and asked: How do we make sure this doesn’t happen at our school?” said Bill Martin, the athletic director at the University of Michigan from 2000 until his retirement in 2010. “And certain athletic directors were smart enough to call their presidents first to insist that they were going to start verifying the status of every admitted recruited athlete.”Indeed, at Yale University, where F.B.I. investigators say the longtime women’s soccer coach accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars to facilitate the admission of a recruit who did not actually play soccer, the university president, Peter Salovey, announced late last week that new oversight policies had already been put in place. The Yale athletic director will begin reviewing every proposed recruit’s credentials before admission, and recruited athletes who fail to make a team after they arrive will receive “close scrutiny,” a university statement said.A broad overhaul of athletic admissions systems in Division I, the highest level of N.C.A.A. competition and the level the colleges in the scheme compete in, has been overdue, according to several athletic administrators interviewed in recent days.Battles over blue-chip recruits in football and basketball already tend to be heavily scrutinized. In those upper echelon sports, if there is money changing hands, it is from coaches to recruits, not the other way around.But in the lower-profile sports like crew, volleyball, tennis and soccer — often called the Olympic sports — there has been more room for bribes and exploitation. And the most common route in such a fraud is to designate a phony athletic prospect as a “recruited walk-on.” In nearly every case of counterfeit athletic credentials cited in last week’s indictments, from Stanford to Texas to Yale, the prospective athlete appeared to be filling the nebulous role of recruited walk-on.Such applicants are not even assured a spot on the team. But they are often on a list of five to 20 athletes — it varies from sport to sport — that a coach is permitted to submit to the admissions department.The two daughters of the actress Lori Loughlin, who was charged in connection with the fraud case last week, were passed off as crew recruits despite never having competed in the sport, according to federal prosecutors.
SHAOXING, China — Wang Jianfeng is no ordinary barber. The 39-year-old from Shaoxing in eastern China specializes in sculpting images of famous faces on to the backs of his clients' heads. From the likes of former Chinese leader Mao Zedong to KFC's Colonel Sanders, to film stars such as Bruce Lee and Jean Reno, Wang can do them all.Inspired by a video he saw online of renowned U.S. hair artist Rob Ferrel, who creates portraits of celebrities on his clients' scalps, Wang wanted to do the same for Chinese men.Since completing his first hair sculpting piece in 2015, Wang has steadily gained a loyal following. His work has become so popular that clients have traveled from neighboring provinces and cities to get their hair sculpted by Wang."It's a form of art," Wang said. "It comes from life but it is also beyond life."Shi Like, a 30-year-old delivery worker, is one of Wang's regulars whose previous hair art designs of choice include one of Salvador Dali's distinctive mustache.When Reuters visited Wang's barbershop, Shi opted for Chairman Mao to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the People's Republic of China. "Serving the people is my motto," Shi beamed, quoting the former Chinese leader himself."I feel like the image of the renminbi note is sculpted on my head," Shi added, laughing to himself. Another of Wang's regulars, 28-year-old Zhai Rubin, was visibly delighted to be getting a cut of one of his idols - former England soccer player David Beckham.Having Beckham's image on his head "means that I can be fashionable as him", said Zhai.Wang spends two weeks each month on the road, giving lessons around the country to barbers and hair stylists at major high street salon chains on how to sculpt basic patterns on to clients' heads. The rest of the time, when not running his barbershop business, Wang does hair art for around 8 to 10 clients each month. Clients are charged 200 yuan ($30) for each piece of hair art which is the same price as a normal haircut at Wang's barbershop. 

NEW YORK — With more TV streaming services than ever before, from newcomers like Disney Plus to stalwarts like Netflix, consumers may feel the ideal viewing experience is finally at hand.Americans have, on average, three streaming video subscription services, according to a recent study of digital media trends by Deloitte. While some have dropped cable and its average bill of around $100 a month altogether, about 43% have both pay TV and streaming subscriptions.Yet patching together a variety of services to get just what one wants isn't always seamless. Families and individuals can still find themselves with service that doesn't perfectly suit their viewing habits. And those monthly subscriptions can add up fast."It doesn't make sense to pay for a bunch of content you have no interest in watching," said Bruce McClary, vice president of marketing for the National Foundation for Credit Counseling. "Finding a service that lets you scale your channel lineup based on your interests can also help you avoid paying for things you don't need."A little research on which services are best for you can help save big bucks.FOR FAMILIESDisney is making the biggest play for family viewership. The owner of Disney Channel, the Star Wars franchise and most recently Fox's entertainment business is betting its mix of family-friendly franchises and beloved animated classics, along with original programming, will make the Disney Plus service irresistible to families, even if they already subscribe to other services. The service, launching Nov. 12, will cost $7 a month initially.For some kids, there may be no substitute for watching Disney's "Frozen" over and over again. But other services that families might already subscribe to have a lot of family-friendly programming too. Amazon Prime ($119 per year or $13 per month for Prime loyalty program membership; Prime Video alone costs $9 a month), Hulu ($6 to $12 per month), and Netflix ($9 to $16 per month) all offer kids programming.Another choice for parents: HBO Now ($15 a month) is the home for the classic kids TV show "Sesame Street." And for spendthrifts, YouTube's free Kids channel offers an endless stream of kid-friendly fare, although quality varies widely.FOR MOVIE BUFFSMovie fans will soon have to work a bit harder to find movies to stream. As Disney, Fox, Universal and Warner Brothers and others offer their own streaming services, they will all eventually pull their content from Netflix. But niche services are there to fill the void.Classic movies can be difficult to find streaming. Movie fans suffered a loss when AT&T, which bought Time Warner last year, decided to discontinue FilmStruck, a streaming service that was a collaboration between Turner Classic Movies and the Criterion Collection. But a similar service called The Criterion Channel that offers 1,000 classic and contemporary films is stepping up to fill the void. It costs $11 a month or $99 for a year.Other movie-centric streaming services include Fandor ($6 per month or $50 per year) or Mubi ($11 per month). Both offer a curated selection of movies.Those on a budget can try Kanopy, a streaming service that works with public libraries and universities to offer library card holders streaming movies for free.FOR SPORTS FANS
To the Editor:“Media Tips and Gulf Money Fuel Campaign to Sabotage Qatar’s Cup” (Sports pages, Feb. 2) implies that the challenges facing Qatar as host of FIFA’s 2022 World Cup are because of the current Gulf crises. However, the challenges facing Qatar 2022 predate the crises.When Qatar was awarded the right in 2010 to host the World Cup, it was assumed it would usher in a period of bridge building, peace, prosperity and moderation in the Middle East. It turned out that it was anything but in the interests of the region. FIFA, which has been marred with accusations of corruption, found itself being used as a vehicle to advance the political agenda of Qatar.Qatar is using the tournament to whitewash its image of being a host to Islamist extremists. Yet it continues to host such Islamists as Yusuf al-Qaradawi, who is barred from the United States and Britain. He has openly endorsed suicide attacks against Israelis (later reversing himself) and continues to be an ideological inspiration for Qatar’s regime. What Qatar laws and ethics dictate are in total contradiction to the FIFA Code of Ethics.When FIFA decided to investigate allegations of corruption related to Qatar 2022, hopes were high that it would no longer tolerate corruption. Allegations of corruption that surfaced again in 2018 would tend to indicate that FIFA did an incomplete job.Trust in global soccer as a bridge to peace and accountability is at stake. Before Qatar is allowed to host FIFA World Cup 2022, it must first answer questions about corruption allegations and address issues of anti-Semitism and extremism. If 2022 comes and Qatar does indeed host the World Cup without changing, the message the world is giving to Muslim and Arab youth is that extremism is acceptable. Qatar should also not be allowed to hide behind the current Gulf crises to avoid answering questions related to FIFA World Cup 2022.Ghanem NuseibehLondonThe writer is the founder of Cornerstone Global Associates, which published a report critical of holding the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. 
COPENHAGEN — The squats and leg lifts were harder than they looked, and after a few sets, Alfonso Aguirre Rodriguez placed his hands on his knees and attempted to compose himself.In November, Aguirre, a 24-year-old professional video game player from Spain, joined the five-man roster of Origen, a League of Legends team that competes in the game’s top European league. The players — all signed in late fall — were told at the time that the team might be run a bit differently from what they were accustomed to. Now here they were, five young men who make their living sitting almost completely still in front of desktop computers, sweating through an hourlong workout in a cramped gym.“I think I’m going to puke my oatmeal,” said Aguirre, who is known in the gaming community as Mithy. “I’m dying.”Some years ago, traditional sports leagues were revolutionized by young analysts wielding computers. The way things had always been done, it turned out, was not always the best way to do things. Now echoes of that transformation have arrived in the growing world of professional e-sports, where gamers are being shepherded toward a new frontier, oddly, by the old, corporeal wisdom of traditional sports.The debate about whether competitive gamers can be considered athletes may never end. In the meantime, though, gamers are increasingly acting like them.Origen is one of two teams owned by Rfrsh Entertainment, an e-sports company based in Copenhagen. Two years ago, the organization hired Kasper Hvidt, a former captain of Denmark’s national handball team, to be its sporting director. Hvidt, 43, had no previous exposure to gaming. But that was the point.E-sports in recent years have crept into the mainstream, attracting new fans, new sponsors and new investment. The top professionals now make six-figure salaries and earn even more with endorsements and prize money. And yet, Hvidt observed, their approach to performance remained amateurish.Eating right, sleeping right, exercising, cleaning up for sponsors — these ideas have undergirded traditional sports for generations. In e-sports, they are regarded as almost radical.“They don’t look at themselves as physical human beings,” said Hvidt, who won the European handball championship with Denmark in 2008.“It’s common sense, in a way. But with them it was not.”Rfrsh has a validating narrative under its belt. The company’s other team, Astralis, which competes internationally in the first-person shooter game Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, had gone almost a year without winning a tournament when Hvidt joined the organization in mid-2017. In 2018, the team earned $3.7 million in prize money while putting together one of the most dominant years ever by any team in any e-sports game.And so Origen this year has set off on the same journey of athletic self-improvement. As recently as last year, the players’ typical day might have been a sedentary extravaganza of sugary energy drinks, fast food and unresolved psychic tension. Now, their days are interposed with protein smoothies, yoga mats and slow-paced breathing exercises.The effects of those changes, the team said, have been plain to see: After starting the current season with a 1-4 record, Origen went on a tear, winning 11 of its final 13 matches, finishing the regular season in second place and securing a first-round bye for the playoffs, which began Friday.“These are little things,” Fabian Broich, Origen’s assistant coach, said. “But they add up, and over the long term you have a more emotionally stable team and a more focused team.”At Rfrsh, Hvidt has assembled a performance team — a physical trainer, a sports psychologist, a massage therapist, a medical doctor and a nutritionist — and constructed a lifestyle plan for the players that combines scientific research, old-school sports wisdom and simple common sense. Broich, 28, a former professional soccer player from Germany, acts as a liaison between the management team and the players, implementing the principles on the ground.
LOS ANGELES — A soccer fan says in a lawsuit that the California Department of Motor Vehicles violated his First Amendment rights by rejecting a personalized license plate he said would celebrate his favorite team, but which the DMV determined might be deemed offensive.Jon Kotler applied for a plate that would read "COYW," an acronym of the slogan "Come on You Whites" used by supporters of London-based Fulham Football Club, according to the federal lawsuit filed in Los Angeles on Tuesday. Fulham players wear white jerseys.In denying the proposed plate, the DMV said the abbreviation could "have racial overtones" and carry "connotations offensive to good taste and decency," according to the court filing.The department's rejection of the application violated his right to freedom of speech, said Kotler, a lawyer and constitutional scholar at the University of Southern California Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism.The Department of Motor Vehicles said Tuesday that it does not comment on pending lawsuits.Kotler's suit asks the court to declare the Department of Motor Vehicles' criteria for personalized license plates unconstitutional. He also wants the department to pay his court costs."You can't allow bureaucrats to make decisions that are fundamental to what it means to be an American, and our free speech is one of those things," Kotler said in a news release. "When the government starts to infringe on our rights, that's when the individual citizen must speak up."In its rejection letter to Kotler, the Department of Motor Vehicles acknowledged the difficulties in balancing "an individual's constitutional right to free speech and expression while protecting the sensibilities of all segments of our population."In a 1973 case, the California Court of Appeals upheld the Department of Motor Vehicles' standard of "good taste and decency" in rejecting a plaintiff's claim that his free speech was violated when the department rejected his requested license plate, "EZ LAY."Constitutional scholar David L. Hudson said courts are often split in cases claiming censorship over personalized plates."It appears in this case that the government has engaged in regrettable censorship of Mr. Kotler's speech," said Hudson, who teaches at Tennessee's Belmont University and is a fellow at the Freedom Forum Institute. "To me courts should be very sensitive to viewpoint discrimination and should err on the side of protecting the individual's speech from government censorship."Kotler is being represented pro bono by the libertarian-leaning nonprofit Pacific Legal Foundation. The group criticized the Department of Motor Vehicles' "attempt to make itself the speech police" in a statement announcing the lawsuit."You can call Jon a sports fan or a First Amendment expert, but the DMV's misguided efforts to regulate license plates have misbranded Jon as a racist," the foundation said.___
WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Eric Swalwell said on Monday he would seek the Democratic nomination for president, joining a crowded field seeking to take on Republican Donald Trump in the 2020 election.Swalwell, a third-term congressman from a California district south of San Francisco, made the announcement during a taping of CBS's "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert," which airs later on Monday. The program tweeted a clip of Swalwell saying he was running for president.Swalwell said tackling student debt and gun violence were among the reasons he jumped into the Democratic primary race."None of that is going to change until we get a leader who is willing to go big on the issues we take on, be bold in the solutions we offer, and do good in the way that we govern. I'm ready to solve these problems. I'm running for president," Swalwell said.Swalwell, 38, is now among the youngest candidates vying for the 2020 Democratic nomination, along with Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and Representative Tulsi Gabbard from Hawaii, both of whom are 37. Thirty-five is the minimum age to serve as U.S. president.Swalwell cited his work on the House Intelligence Committee and his founding of Future Forum, a group of more than 25 Democratic lawmakers that visits universities and community colleges to discuss issues important to millennial voters like student loan debt and climate change, among the reasons he would be a qualified White House candidate.In his first House campaign, Swalwell defeated a Democratic incumbent who had been in office since 1973, seven years before Swalwell was born.Since joining Congress, Swalwell has advocated for raising the cap on the portion of salary that is subject to the Social Security payroll tax. He has also proposed a "mobile Congress" that would allow lawmakers to cast votes remotely from their districts.Swalwell grew up in Iowa and California. He attended Campbell University in North Carolina on a soccer scholarship for two years before transferring to the University of Maryland, where he earned his bachelor's and law degrees.Other House lawmakers in the Democratic race include Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio, who announced his bid last week. Former Representative Beto O'Rourke from Texas is also a contender.U.S. senators vying for the Democratic presidential nomination include Kamala Harris of California, Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. (Reporting by Amanda Becker, Makini Brice and Eric Beech; Editing by David Alexander)
BOSTON — A tennis coach with a country club membership and a second home on Cape Cod. An assistant teacher at a Houston public high school. A college administrator whose reputation as a stickler for the rules belied what prosecutors say was a penchant for secretly taking bribes to facilitate students’ admission.All together, a dozen people, including six coaches, pleaded not guilty in federal court in Boston on Monday in the college admissions scandal that has ensnared Hollywood celebrities and forced a reckoning at elite colleges where prosecutors say students were admitted on the basis of falsified test scores and athletic credentials.Those who appeared in court showcased the wide range of people who prosecutors believe were caught up in the scheme. The man who connected them all was William Singer, a college admissions consultant known as Rick who has pleaded guilty to helping the children of clients cheat on college admissions exams and to facilitating bribes.So far, the prosecutors have revealed little beyond what is in the charging documents, leaving several mysteries. The United States attorney’s office has said that the investigation is continuing, leading to speculation that more parents or coaches could be charged.At a news conference on March 12, Andrew E. Lelling, the United States attorney for the District of Massachusetts, said that one client of Mr. Singer’s had paid $6.5 million to facilitate their child’s admission to college — many times more than what any of the other parents have been accused of paying. This payment is not mentioned in any of the documents, and the person who paid this sum has not been revealed. A spokeswoman for the attorney’s office would not identify the family or the school, but said it was paid to get a child into college through the athletic recruiting scheme.Also on Monday, the federal Department of Education sent letters to the eight colleges where coaches are alleged to have taken bribes, saying that it was opening an investigation of its own, according to a department official with knowledge of the investigation.The letter said that the investigation, first reported by Politico, would examine, among other things, whether the colleges violated any laws or regulations governing federal financial aid programs. It asked the colleges for information about their admissions policies, as well as the names, Social Security numbers and academic transcripts of students who were allegedly admitted as part of the scheme.Those who appeared in court in Boston on Monday, all of whom have been indicted on one count of racketeering conspiracy, are each accused of participating in one or both aspects of the scam.At one end of the spectrum of those charged was Gordon Ernst, the former head tennis coach at Georgetown University, who has been accused of taking $2.7 million in bribes from Mr. Singer to designate at least 12 applicants as recruits to the tennis team. Prosecutors are seeking forfeiture of Mr. Ernst’s country club membership and a second home on Cape Cod, among other assets. Mr. Ernst appeared in court on Monday flanked by two prominent defense lawyers.At the other end was Lisa Williams, an assistant teacher at a Houston high school known as Niki who prosecutors say took bribes — the indictment cites one in the amount of $5,000 — in exchange for allowing cheating on the college entrance exams. The judge noted that Ms. Williams, who entered her plea in a voice barely above a whisper, had qualified for a court-appointed lawyer.In a sign of the wide interest the case has generated, television cameras and photographers crowded the sidewalk outside the courthouse an hour before the hearing. Access to the courtroom was limited, with some journalists confined to a spillover room. Inside the courtroom, the defendants, their lawyers and family members, and a few members of the public, filled the benches on the left and in the center, while the benches on the right were packed with reporters.Most of the defendants appeared in suits, but one charged in connection with test cheating, Igor Dvorskiy, the director of a private school in Los Angeles, was dressed informally, in a gray sweater.Magistrate Judge M. Page Kelley conducted the hearing with the efficiency of an assembly line. She brought the defendants up three at a time to be arraigned. Mr. Ernst came first, and in addressing him about his rights and the consequences of violating the conditions of his release, Judge Kelley instructed the others to listen carefully so that she did not have to repeat herself.All of the defendants are out on bail, of varying amounts. Those who also appeared on Monday were Donna Heinel, the former senior associate athletic director at the University of Southern California; Laura Janke and Ali Khosroshahin, former University of Southern California soccer coaches; William Ferguson, the former women’s volleyball coach at Wake Forest University; Jorge Salcedo, the former head coach of men’s soccer at the University of California at Los Angeles; and Jovan Vavic, the former U.S.C. water polo coach.Others included Steven Masera, the accountant and chief financial officer of Mr. Singer’s company and a related nonprofit through which prosecutors say he funneled the bribes; Mikaela Sanford, an employee of Mr. Singer’s who is accused of taking online classes in place of some students so that they could submit the grades she earned as part of their college applications; and Martin Fox, the president of a private tennis academy in Houston, whom prosecutors say Mr. Singer paid for helping to arrange some of the bribes.
FIFA is pressing ahead with plans to expand the 2022 World Cup despite the concerns of some officials in the host nation, Qatar, whose support the project requires. The move, a politically perilous project but one heavily backed by FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, would grow soccer’s biggest championship to 48 teams ahead of schedule and require navigating some treacherous regional rivalries.Under the plan currently being considered, most matches in the 2022 tournament would still be held in Qatar — which won the rights to a 32-team event and continues to prepare for one — but other games would take place in Kuwait and Oman as part of a broader Middle Eastern World Cup. Infantino’s expansion would not send games to countries that are currently leading a political and economic blockade of Qatar, like the United Arab Emirates.Infantino, elected FIFA president in 2016 and seeking re-election to a four-year term in June, has been among the biggest proponents of an expanded World Cup that, through increased places for FIFA’s member associations and increased sponsorship revenues, could prove popular among countries that rarely get to compete in the tournament.A final call on the idea was expected to be made next week when FIFA’s governing council meets in Miami, but Infantino has decided to move the final decision to FIFA’s annual Congress in June, where he is standing unopposed for re-election.Should Qatar agree to the change — its consent is required — and should logistical challenges be overcome, Infantino would most likely seek the approval of FIFA’s 211 member federations, a grouping long known for rubber-stamping policies favored by the president. He had said previously that the decision would be taken up by the smaller FIFA Council, which governs the sport worldwide.FIFA and Qatar’s World Cup organizers did not comment on the matter.Privately though, some senior members of the organizing committee who have been working on the event since Qatar controversially secured it a decade ago are opposed to sharing the competition and frustrated that it may yet happen. Qatar’s final position on the matter will be defined by its rulers, who may see political advantage in agreeing to include specific neighbors.While Infantino has suggested that sharing games with Qatar’s neighbors would help heal rifts in the region, a FIFA-led group conducting a feasibility study has concluded that it would be impractical to include the blockading countries, which also include Bahrain, in hosting plans, leaving Oman and Kuwait as favored choices. Infantino recently visited both countries, where he discussed the idea, according to people with knowledge of the talks.Infantino has pushed an expansion of the World Cup at every opportunity in recent years, despite setbacks along the way. He pulled the issue from the agenda at last year’s FIFA Congress amid a backlash from various stakeholders.But Qatar’s posture — it has not publicly rejected an expanded World Cup, even as logistics almost certainly require bringing in partners — has emboldened Infantino to forge ahead to secure the expanded format, which has been adopted for the 2026 World Cup and beyond. Qatar 2022 organizers have said since last summer that they will reserve judgment on a 48-team tournament until a comprehensive study has been carried out.Infantino has vacillated when asked about the intensity of his push for a 48-team World Cup, veering between sporting justifications that center on growing interest in the sport and politically hopeful ones that suggest it could ease political tensions in the region.“There are tensions in this particular region, and it’s up to their respective leaders to deal with that, but maybe it’s easier to talk about a joint football project than more complicated things,” Infantino said in January. “If it can help all the people in the Gulf and all the countries in the world develop football and bring a positive message to the world about football, then you should give it a try.”Kuwait and Oman have remained largely neutral during the Gulf crisis, which has been characterized by bitterness and often petty behavior between opposing countries. That enmity was laid bare at the recently completed Asian Cup, where Qatar routed host United Arab Emirates in a final that was played in a poisonous atmosphere and will be remembered for the scores of shoes and other types of footwear that rained down from the bleachers toward Qatar’s players as they celebrated goals in a 4-0 victory. With flights blocked between the countries, Qatari players traveled to the tournament via Oman, while its fans were largely barred from attending.The travel restrictions are also a concern for World Cup organizers who had banked on thousands of supporters traveling to the event from Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E.There are several logistical hurdles to clear for an expanded tournament. FIFA officials have ruled that Qatar, smaller in size than Connecticut, won’t be able to absorb the additional games, and now must decide if neighboring countries possess infrastructure that meets its exacting demands.
Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. Also, we’re following breaking news about the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines jet, which killed the more than 150 people aboard. Boeing identified the plane as a 737 MAX 8, the same model that crashed in October in Indonesia. 1. 47 months.The sentence for Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, struck many as lenient, compared with the 19 to 24 years recommended under sentencing guidelines. Mr. Manafort, above in 2017, had perpetrated a decade-long, multimillion-dollar fraud scheme, but Judge T.S. Ellis said he lived “an otherwise blameless life.”This week, a judge in federal court in Washington will sentence Mr. Manafort on two conspiracy charges, which carry a maximum penalty of five years each. Michael Flynn, Mr. Trump’s former national security adviser, will also be sentenced this week.And Michael Cohen, the president’s former fixer and personal lawyer, sued the Trump Organization for refusing to pay him $1.9 million in legal costs. We also obtained six checks from Mr. Trump to Mr. Cohen that show how the president tried to prevent alleged sexual misconduct from going public.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. House Democrats tried to put to rest an uproar over Representative Ilhan Omar’s remarks, seen by some as anti-Semitic, with a bill condemning hate.The scandal overshadowed the passing of a comprehensive reform bill — dismantling voting barriers, limiting money in politics and imposing stricter ethics rules on federal officials. Above, Ms. Omar at a news conference for the reform bill with Speaker Nancy Pelosi.In last week’s will-they-or-won’t-they 2020 developments: John Hickenlooper, a two-time Colorado governor, is running for president. Former Vice President Joe Biden is 95 percent sure he is, too. The leading Democratic candidates have largely broken with consensus-driven politics and embraced progressive ideas. Here’s what that means for moderates.Check our candidate tracker for updates on the crowded presidential field.____3. The southern border is experiencing a “humanitarian catastrophe,” according to Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary.She urged Congress to support the president’s border wall, although it was not clear how that would solve the humanitarian crisis. Her testimony came as the number of migrants crossing the border without authorization reached an 11-year high in February. Above, migrants in Penitas, Tex., turning themselves in to Border Patrol agents in February.
The spectacle of Julian Assange, bearded and haggard, resisting arrest while London police officers dragged him through the street, punctuated the end of seven confounding years inside the Ecuadorean Embassy, where he lived with his cat in a small corner room as the world’s most famous self-proclaimed political refugee.Mr. Assange, 47, has long fashioned himself as a crusader for revealing secrets. The internet group he founded, WikiLeaks, published caches of classified American government communications, as well as emails hacked by Russian intelligence clearly intended to damage the presidential candidacy of Hillary Clinton.Though arrested Thursday morning by the British for skipping bail, Mr. Assange was immediately charged in the United States for conspiracy to hack a government computer.To supporters, Mr. Assange was a martyr and champion of free speech. To the United States government, he was a pariah and a  lackey of the Kremlin. But it was the hardened opinion of Ecuador’s government that perhaps mattered most.He had become an unwanted houseguest.At the tiny red-brick embassy, he continued to run his internet group, conducted news conferences before hundreds of fawning admirers from a balcony, rode his skateboard in the halls, and played host to a parade of visitors, including Lady Gaga and Pamela Anderson, a rumored lover who brought vegan sandwiches.On Thursday, Ms. Anderson sent out a batch of Twitter messages attacking the arrest as a “vile injustice” and called Britain and the United States “devils and liars and thieves.”In interviews with The New York Times in 2016, as part of a long look at his ties to Russia, Mr. Assange denied any link to Russian intelligence, in particular regarding the leaked Democratic emails. Mrs. Clinton and the Democrats were “whipping up a neo-McCarthyist hysteria about Russia,” he said. There is “no concrete evidence” that what WikiLeaks publishes comes from intelligence agencies, he said, even as he indicated that he would happily accept such material.Small as they were, Mr. Assange’s living quarters at the embassy, close to the lavish self-indulgence of Harrods, the famous department store, did not cramp his desire to remain in the limelight.Mr. Assange had an office equipped with a bed, sunlamp, phone, computer, kitchenette, shower, treadmill and bookshelves. Three years ago, one person familiar with the setup called it “a gas station with two attendants.”Vaughan Smith, who had been a longtime supporter of Mr. Assange and helped put up his bail money, said that “Julian’s a big bloke, with big bones, and he fills the room physically and intellectually.”“It’s a tiny embassy with a tiny balcony,” he added, “small, hot and with not great air flow, and it must be jolly difficult for everyone there.”But from there, Mr. Assange for years held court for admirers and famous curiosity seekers, among them the soccer star Eric Cantona, and Nigel Farage, the pro-Brexit radio host and former head of U.K. Independence Party.Still, Mr. Assange’s isolation was wearing on him, a friend said on Thursday, especially the long, lonely weekends in an essentially empty embassy he could not leave.Even his friends have described him as difficult, a narcissist with an outsized view of his importance and a disinterest in mundane matters like personal hygiene.
Note: Students 13 and older are invited to comment here. Adults should post their comments elsewhere on NYTimes.com.On Tuesday, federal prosecutors charged 50 people in a brazen scheme to buy spots in the freshman classes at Yale, Stanford and other big name schools. Have you heard about the scandal?Watch the one-minute video above to learn more about the indictment. What is your reaction to what you know so far?In “College Admissions Scandal: Actresses, Business Leaders and Other Wealthy Parents Charged,” Jennifer Medina, Katie Benner and Kate Taylor write:Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— What is your reaction to the college admissions cheating scandal? What details in the article did you find the most shocking and why? Are you surprised that something like this happened in the United States? Why or why not?— Who do you think should be held responsible for these crimes and how so?— The authors write: “The charges also underscored how college admissions have become so cutthroat and competitive that some have sought to break the rules.” Do you agree? What do you think this case tells us about the college admissions process today?— In a recent Opinion column, Frank Bruni argues that what these parents did is not all that different from the lengths to which many wealthy families will go to secure college admission for their children:What is your reaction to Mr. Bruni’s claim? Do you think the college admissions process is rigged to favor the wealthy? Do you think it is fair? Why or why not?— What message does this scandal send to high school students who intend to go to college? What is your biggest takeaway from it?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.
PARIS/KIEV — Flanked by rock musicians wearing yellow overalls and black t-shirts with skulls on them, Ukraine's President Petro Poroshenko pumped his fist, danced to the music and waved to supporters outside a soccer stadium in Kiev on Sunday.Standing on a stage filled with young people, he sent a message to his absent challenger, the comedian Volodymyr Zelenskiy, ahead of a presidential election run-off on April 21. "I am pleased that so many young people are with us today. Volodymyr Oleksandrovych, you hear the voice of Kiev, the voice of Ukraine, its youth. The youth is with us. The youth is the driving force of our state," he said on Sunday. Poroshenko has rebooted his campaign after Zelenskiy won nearly twice as many votes as him in the first round of the election on March 31, reaching out especially to younger voters disillusioned with corruption and the slow pace of change.The president apologized for past mistakes like installing business cronies to high office, promised to be more transparent in communicating decisions and pledged to bring more young people onto his staff if voters gave him another chance.At stake is the leadership of a country on the frontline of the West's standoff with Russia following the 2014 annexation of Crimea and the outbreak of a Kremlin-backed insurgency in eastern Ukraine that has killed 13,000 people.If elected, Zelenskiy has promised to keep Ukraine on a pro-Western course, pursue reforms and tackle corruption. Investors view him as something of an unknown quantity but his team has tried to assure them he will keep the country's loan program with the International Monetary Fund on track.In an interview with Reuters on Friday, Poroshenko said his strategy for the first round was reminding Ukrainians to be proud of their country and not listen to Russian depictions of its neighbor as a failed state.Doing so allowed him to trumpet achievements like securing visa-free travel for Ukrainians to European Union countries, strengthening the army and helping establish a national Orthodox church independent from the Russian clergy.But for the second round, he has struck a more contrite tone with voters while still painting Zelenskiy as a buffoonish populist."First of all, some people are disappointed. And we should open their heart, we should knock on their doors, we should deliver the information that 'look, we hear what you mean. We understand what you need,'" Poroshenko said.    "Don't believe populists, don't believe in the simple decision to the complicated question. May I remind you, we are the country in a state of war," he said onboard his plane between whistle-stop visits to Berlin and Paris.Poroshenko has also sought to shore up his reformist credentials. He rolled out a long-awaited special court to try corruption cases and fired a regional governor accused of incompetence.Asked if he had more surprises up his sleeve before the second round, Poroshenko replied: "You consider launching an anti-corruption court as a surprise? I think this is a part of my program."The answer to your question would be definitely 'yes'. I have some surprise for the last week," he said, declining to specify. "Otherwise it wouldn't be a surprise."
REYKJAVIK, Iceland — When it comes to print advertising, most high-end watch manufacturers go for the traditional: a product close-up and maybe a posed scene of gift-giving or sporting skill.Not JS Watch Company.One of its ’40s-style photo ads has its 69-year-old master watchmaker and charismatic frontman, Gilbert O. Gudjonsson, peering through a watchmaker’s eyepiece while his three business colleagues, clad in matching rubber swim caps, gawk at a statuesque bathing beauty beside a swimming pool.In another, the colleagues are aviation mechanics, stunned by an attractive flight attendant. Mr. Gudjonsson? He’s too busy inspecting a map to notice.Why would an atelier that has earned critical acclaim for its mechanical timepieces, made of Swiss movements and German parts, have an ad campaign that is the equivalent of an exaggerated stage wink?It’s because Mr. Gudjonsson and his colleagues — Grimkell Sigurthorsson, Sigurdur Gilbertsson and Julius Heidarsson — believe in watchmaking with a sense of humor.“Yes, we are watchmakers, but we are always having fun here,” said Mr. Gudjonsson, who once danced through Reykjavik dressed as an astronaut to promote Arc-Tic Iceland, a line of waterproof quartz watches created by the atelier.The business occupies a space on Laugavegur, a popular Reykjavik shopping street where tourists browse fisherman’s sweaters and sample grilled puffin. Visitors will often find Mr. Gudjonsson behind a door labeled “Probably the world’s smallest watch manufacturer,” in a narrow showroom decorated with vintage wall clocks.He has been fixing, selling or assembling watches since he was 16. “I never have to be in an office or use a computer — and I never want to,” he said.Occupying just 25 square meters, or 270 square feet, the showroom has a tiny work area tucked at the rear, so it could well be among the world’s smallest ateliers. In any case, some big names — including Tom Cruise, Ben Stiller and Yoko Ono — own its mechanical timepieces.Even the Dalai Lama has one. “He loves watches; he collects them,” Mr. Gudjonsson said. The local chapter of Friends of Tibet presented the watch during the Buddhist leader’s 2009 visit to Iceland. “When they gave it to him, he said watches are his only weakness.”Each year, the atelier produces about 500 watches. Mr. Gudjonsson assembles them in the work space, often with the help of Mr. Gilbertsson, his son — although Mr. Gilbertsson says he frequently seeks refuge from the atelier’s festive atmosphere at a second JS workshop nearby.The JS line has 14 collections, each with an Icelandic theme. One added last year was a 300-piece limited edition celebrating the Icelandic soccer team’s first FIFA World Cup spot and the smallest country by population ever to qualify for competition. (The team was eliminated after a loss to Croatia.)Some watch blogs and reviews criticized the design as taking the soccer theme too far — with a soccer ball engraved on the crown and a red 12 on the dial as a nod to fans, collectively considered the team’s 12th member — and the company for touting a niche timepiece as a dress watch at a luxury price of 2,418 euros ($2,748).“But not everyone is a collector,” Jason Swire, author of “Timely Advice” and a writer for Ablogtowatch.com, wrote in an email. (Mr. Swire said he used news releases to critique the watch.) “A lot of consumers prefer to own a single ‘nice’ watch and wear it for all occasions, and for that demographic a half-sporty, half-dressy watch makes a lot of sense.”
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — This year’s Miami Open is about 20 miles north of its previous home on Key Biscayne, but the tournament’s cultural epicenter is unmoved. It’s still somewhere thousands of miles to the south.Because there is no tournament of its caliber in Mexico, the Caribbean, or Central and South America, the Miami Open has developed into the de facto Latin American Slam, drawing fans from the region and its diasporas, transforming this Florida fixture into a virtual homecoming for Latino players.“It’s really nice to have the support,” said Leonardo Mayer, an Argentine. “It’s almost like playing in Buenos Aires.”The top South American player, Juan Martín del Potro of Argentina, missed this year’s tournament because of a knee injury, but fans had to change only one letter in their customary cheer for him in order to root for his compatriot Federico Delbonis, who took a set off top-ranked Novak Djokovic on Sunday. Instead of “Olé, olé, olé, olé! Delpo, Delpo!” they chanted, “Delbo, Delbo!”Even away from the court, the Miami area’s large Latino population affects the experience of playing in the tournament. Delbonis said he appreciated being able to buy yerba mate leaves in Miami to make his favorite beverage; for most events, he has to travel with his own supply.“Every time I come here I feel like I want to be here, I want to live here,” he said. “When I got to the court today, I heard a lot of Argentinians speaking Spanish, cheering in Spanish, and you feel that energy they give you. They give you confidence, and you feel it inside. It’s good for your game to be more happy on court.”Monica Puig, who in 2016 won Puerto Rico’s first Olympic gold medal, had vocal support from many Puerto Rican fans in her first-round match on Wednesday, when she lost to Wang Xiyu. She said regretted not being able to play more matches throughout the season in front of that crowd, which included her father.“Having that Latin American feel here, just buzzing all over the place, it’s really special,” said Puig, the only Latin American woman ranked in the top 100 in singles.Even fans from Latin American countries that are not represented among the players make their presence felt. After Fabio Fognini of Italy defeated Guido Andreozzi of Argentina on Friday, a woman unfurled a large Paraguayan flag.Latin American reporters travel to the Miami Open in droves, with 24 representatives of Argentine news media leading this year’s international contingent, according to the tournament.Though Latin American fans initially embraced the tournament organically, the event has begun marketing to them directly, including digital advertising in South America in both Spanish and Portuguese, as well as on Spanish-language websites in South Florida. (While Latin food and music can be found on the grounds, all the signs at the Miami Open are in English.)Players from the United States have to adjust to this rare home tournament where the crowds may not tip in their favor. Pablo Cuevas of Uruguay recalled being stunned in 2011 when fans chanted his country’s name as he upset Andy Roddick, the defending champion and American star, on the stadium court of Key Biscayne.In one of the last matches played at the old venue in 2018, the American John Isner, the eventual champion, had little support when he met del Potro in the semifinals.“The fans were great, but it was not 50-50,” Isner said, smiling. “There were a lot of Argentinian flags, that country loves their sport, loves their soccer and their tennis. To see all the flags in the crowd, it was a very, very cool atmosphere.”Many other non-Latin American players similarly relish the passionate crowds.
DOHA/LONDON — Qatar filed lawsuits on Monday against three banks, accusing them of causing billions of dollars of damage to its economy by what it called overseas currency manipulation in the wake of an Arab boycott against Qatar in 2017.The cases, filed in London and New York, name Luxembourg-based Banque Havilland, the United Arab Emirates' First Abu Dhabi Bank (FAB) and Saudi Arabia's Samba Bank, according to filings seen by Reuters and a statement from Qatar's government communications office.First Abu Dhabi Bank declined to comment, while Banque Havilland and Samba Bank did not immediately respond to requests for comment.In the case, Qatar alleges Banque Havilland devised a plan to weaken the country's riyal currency on key composite indices by submitting thousands of "fictitious and depreciated" quotes, according to the court filings."But the quotes were phoney, as FAB, Samba Bank, and others repeatedly refused to transact with counterparties at the prices they were quoting in public," the filings stated. The lawsuits are the latest fallout in a protracted Gulf row that began in 2017 when Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt imposed an economic boycott on Qatar in 2017, accusing it of supporting Islamist militants and Iran.Qatar, a small Gulf state but major gas exporter, denies the charges and says the boycott is an attempt to impinge on its sovereignty.The currency manipulation was intended to "deplete Qatar's financial reserves so that it would be unable to complete its preparations to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup games, and would be forced to share the games with Saudi Arabia or the UAE," the filings stated. UAE sports chief Mohammed Khalfan al-Romaithi has said his country and other Gulf states could co-host an expanded World Cup 2022, a measure global soccer body FIFA is expected to vote on in June but which Qatar holds the final decision over. Qatar liquidated nearly $3 billion in U.S. treasury investments and drew down over $40 billion in foreign reserves after the alleged manipulation in a bid to support its currency, the filings stated.With more than $300 billion in central bank reserves and sovereign wealth fund assets, bankers say Qatar has sufficient financial firepower to block attacks on its currency.Its central bank began a probe into the alleged manipulation in late 2017 after it said unidentified banks were looking to attack the riyal by trading it between themselves offshore at artificially weak levels - to create an illusion Qatar's economy was crumbling."Qatar seeks to hold FAB, Samba Bank, and the unknown John Doe Defendants who conspired with them liable for the billions of dollars in damages that they have caused to Qatar, plus punitive damages and statutory interest," the filings stated.They added elsewhere that Qatar also sought to hold Banque Havilland similarly responsible. (Reporting by Eric Knecht and Dmitry Zhdannikov; Additional reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Dale Hudson and Mark Potter)
The Swiss watch brand Hublot, which has partnered with the likes of the FIFA World Cup and the Ferrari Formula One team, has announced that it will continue its role as official timekeeper of the Cricket World Cup, with the 2019 competition scheduled to start May 30.The event is sponsored by the International Cricket Council and held every four years — this year in England and Wales.Hublot’s previous high-profile sporting affiliations have put it in competition with more established watch brands, such as Rolex, Omega and Audemars Piguet, each of which has successfully used sports to raise brand awareness. Hublot was founded in 1980 and has been owned by LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton since 2008.Ricardo Guadalupe, Hublot’s chief executive, said that Hublot’s strategy was to invest in sports that have a global footprint and little, if any, association with other Swiss watch brands. In the past, Audemars Piguet had worked with Sachin Tendulkar and Ulysse Nardin with Yuvraj Singh, both Indian cricketers, but Hublot is the first to partner with the organizing council.“Cricket is virgin territory,” Mr. Guadalupe said in an interview during the announcement of the partnership at the brand’s Bond Street boutique in London.Mr. Guadalupe said cricket also would give Hublot a route to market in targeted regions. “Cricket is huge in India,” he said. “There is potential to grow heavily in India and with Indians, who buy all over the world.”Cricket is India’s most popular sport. The national broadcaster Star India reported that its television coverage of the 2015 Cricket World Cup, also sponsored by Hublot, was watched by more than 600 million people in the country. (The 2019 Super Bowl had a domestic audience of 98.2 million, according to the research firm Nielsen.)“We’ve had double-digit growth in India since we got involved in cricket,” Mr. Guadalupe said, adding that this summer Hublot plans to open its first stand-alone boutique in Mumbai, India’s financial center and largest city, and is working on one in New Delhi.Mr. Guadalupe declined to disclose the cost of the I.C.C. partnership, but said that it was in the “single millions” of dollars and much less costly than Hublot’s soccer affiliations.As part of the cricket deal, Hublot had announced a 100-piece limited-edition watch, a version of its 45-millimeter Classic Fusion Chronograph that is scheduled for release on March 23. (Mr. Guadalupe said the 2,018-piece limited-edition connected watch that Hublot made for the 2018 World Cup sold out in four weeks.)Mr. Guadalupe also said that some top Hublot customers would be given a special experience at the Cricket World Cup, but that the reason for the partnership was to “build and shape the consumer of tomorrow.”
The Cannes Film Festival on Thursday unveiled a set of movies in contention for this year’s Palme d’Or. The American director Terrence Malick — who won in 2011 for “The Tree of Life” — is back with “A Hidden Life,” set during World War II. Films by Pedro Almodóvar of Spain and Ken Loach of Britain are also in the running.Quentin Tarantino’s “Once Upon a Time in Hollywood” could join the lineup if it’s completed in time, said the festival’s artistic director, Thierry Frémaux, at a news conference in Paris. Mr. Frémaux said he had seen most of it, and it was “magnificent.”The festival opens on May 14 with Jim Jarmusch’s zombie movie “The Dead Don’t Die” and ends on May 25. There are 19 movies in the race so far, though Mr. Frémaux said there were likely to be additions.“You will see women directors, first films, Americans, zombies, genetic manipulations,” Mr. Frémaux said, adding that the titles in the competition would also feature “painters, singers, cops, parasites, violent mafiosos.”Screening out of the official competition is “Rocketman,” a biopic directed by Dexter Fletcher, whose world premiere will bring the superstar singer-songwriter Elton John to the Cannes red carpet.Another out-of-competition title is the documentary “Diego Maradona,” focusing on the Argentine soccer player and directed by Asif Kapadia, whose Amy Winehouse documentary drew critical acclaim.This year’s lineup is a mix of Cannes veterans — Marco Bellocchio of Italy, Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne of Belgium — and first-timers to the competition, such as all four of the female directors selected: Jessica Hausner, Céline Sciamma, Mati Diop and Justine Triet.[The directors Barry Jenkins and Claire Denis on filmmaking and rising stars like Mati Diop.] Thomas Sotinel, a film critic for the French newspaper Le Monde, said in a telphone interview that he saw their inclusion as a positive step in Cannes’ efforts to achieve a gender balance.“Four out of 19 is a little timid, statistically speaking, but it’s one more than last year, so there’s progress,” he said, noting that the four were all directors “at the start of their careers.”At the moment, there were “very few established female directors” in world cinema, besides Jane Campion or Claire Denis, he added. The only way to bring in more women was to bring in up-and-comers. “That’s how we’ll see renewal,” Mr. Sotinel said.Last year, the Cannes Film Festival missed out on Alfonso Cuarón’s “Roma” because it was a Netflix production. “Roma,” which premiered at the Venice Film Festival, went on to win the top Venice prize as well as three Academy Awards.The reason for the exclusion was that Cannes requires all competition titles to be released in French movie theaters. The rule is part of a system of subsidies and regulations with which France protects its homegrown film industry and preserves its nationwide network of cinemas.Mr. Frémaux said the rule remained in place, though he and the festival management had had regular conversations with Netflix, including one earlier this week. He said Netflix had no movies ready that would have been potentially eligible for the competition.The president of the festival, Pierre Lescure, told reporters at the Paris news conference that the French film industry would soon show more flexibility and that the mandated delay between a movie’s theatrical release and its release by a streaming service, currently up to three years, could be changed. Depending on a movie’s style and budget, that window could be narrowed, he explained.
SUNDAY PUZZLE — Natan Last has a tremendous record for introducing elegant new entries (how had we lived without CAFFEINE FIX?) and a sharp eye for the type of wordplay that sneaks up on you (and, if you’re me, keeps right on going, just overhead). This is one of those puzzles. The solve is greatly enhanced by today’s constructor notes, so glean what details you can from Mr. Last — he mentors, and teaches people how to do this stuff, and has the type of loopy and flexible mind that slots together intricate bits and pieces to form a cohesive whole. It’s quite amazing.We’ve had a run of prominent Sunday themes that underpin an entire big grid. A bright puzzle like this, where one has to tease the tendrils of the theme out during the entire solve, is a lot of fun and a little bit of a palate cleanser.Much inscrutability today in that tendriled theme — if you don’t find what you’re looking for here, move on down a section.7A: A heartbreaking state of affairs, in the days of waning print circulation and instant feedback, is the lonely journalist sitting in the dark with his or her analytics panel open anxiously watching the CLICKS. There’s no market for quality over quantity anymore. (All of you are quality clicks, friends. High-class clicks.)71A: I don’t know if you’ve spent time in Louisiana or otherwise had the opportunity to “fais do-do,” or make a party happen, but if you have, then “makin’ groceries” probably sounded CAJUN to you. 72A: These are both astrological signs and AUTOS. If you happened to wonder if there was ever a “Scorpio” car, there was! It was gorgeous.2D: C.B. radios and their lingo go back about a century, and members of the “10 code,” common or relevant phrases that are coded to the number 10 with another number, were used by the police in the 1930s to make communication easier. It makes sense that TEN ONE would establish, right off the bat, that communication via the radio was staticky, faint or otherwise difficult to understand. Intentionally or not, the crossing here with SHE BEAR was cute because that could be a female cop. If a SHE BEAR in a plain brown wrapper takes your picture and turns on the bubble gum machine, you might be about to get a driving award.6D: The Nylons sang “The Lion Sleeps Tonight” and the Rayons sang “Do You Love Me.” Three makes a (highly synthetic) pattern; I always figured these bands were using the fabric names to be modern and slick, but the ORLONS apparently took their name as a spoof of a popular group at their high school, the Cashmeres. This was not the Cashmeres, by the way, who also had hits in the 60s.41D: Who else had “egg roll” at first? White House propaganda. If you went straight to EGG HUNT, maybe you thought of the Easter beagle.77D: After a 40-plus year absence, this is the second appearance in a few months of GAY PAREE, which looks so odd but was, as spelled, the title of a 1926 Broadway musical revue, and also in a title of a Cole Porter song for the 1953 show “Can-Can.”93D: This might have been the crunchiest “straight” clue today, heralding the 21st-century debut of OTOMI, or Hñäñhü, people of Central Mexico. I had never put a name to these marvelous textiles, but the Otomi are known for beautiful embroidery.There is a fairly well-known sporting event on telly this evening, so your minds may have been tuned to that frequency already, and we have a theme today that revolves around sportsmanship, or rather lack thereof, in four major athletic leagues — M.L.B. baseball, N.F.L. football, FIFA soccer and N.B.A. basketball. We seem to be missing N.H.L. hockey, probably because it’s difficult to play attempted murder for laughs, and that is what it takes to get thrown out of a hockey match (or so I thought — more on that later).There are three layers to each sports “play,” we’ll call them. The first two are codependent so we’ll address them together.First, there are four italicized clues, each linked to another entry — these are at 28A (linking to 102A), 48A (linking to 105A), 64A (linking to 87A) and 86D (linking to 65A). Each of these italicized clues refers to a star from one of the above sports leagues, getting “ejected,” or thrown out, of the entry that’s linked.Second, we have those linked clues, referred to above. Each is straightforward, but too tricky to come up with, at least for me, without a ton of crossing letters filled in. Even then, though, there’s a problem. 
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump visited Alabama in the wake of destructive tornadoes there.“You saw things that you wouldn’t believe,” he told reporters in a neighborhood gravely damaged on Sunday by the storm outbreak, which left at least 23 people dead. He also visited a church serving as the hub of a volunteer relief effort, where he signed Bibles, pictured above.Back in Washington, his administration lost two advisers. Bill Shine, the White House communications director and former Fox News executive, resigned, and will work for President Trump’s re-election campaign. The Air Force secretary, Heather Wilson, said she would resign to become president at the University of Texas at El Paso. She is one of the highest-ranking women at the Pentagon.The president tweeted about both resignations, which he said were amicable, as well as Michael Cohen. He asserted that his former lawyer asked him directly for a pardon and was denied, which contradicts Mr. Cohen’s testimony._____2. A weak monthly jobs report clouded the economic picture.Just 20,000 new U.S. jobs were added — a small fraction of the 175,000 that analysts had expected. It was the weakest jobs report since September 2017. Still, wage growth and jobless figures are promising signs. Some saw the jobs news as a fluke, and others a troubling omen. Above, a worker in Lewiston, Me., helps to weatherproof a home.The report may have been tinged with aftereffects from the government shutdown. And one possibility is that the economy, which has added 20 million jobs during a decades-long expansion, is close to exhausting the supply of workers._____3. The U.S. women’s soccer team sued U.S. Soccer, accusing it of “institutionalized gender discrimination,” just three months before the Women’s World Cup.The discrimination, the athletes said, affects not only their paychecks but also where they play and how often, how they train, the medical treatment and coaching they receive, and even how they travel to matches. Above, the team at a tournament last week.It was a sudden and significant escalation of their yearslong fight over pay equity and working conditions. The team, which includes some of the world’s most famous female athletes, has been a leading force in women’s sports for more than a generation._____
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. British business braces for impact, President Trump gives an interview to The Times, and European teenagers become a protest vanguard. Here’s the latest: Companies across Britain, faced with confusion around the country’s pending departure from the E.U., have been stockpiling products, making backup plans and exploring new shipping routes. International banks are shifting thousands of jobs from Britain to the Continent.“It’s meant extra resources, extra overtime, to get it done,” said one executive. “It’s incredibly annoying.”By the numbers: Britain’s economy is 2.3 percent smaller than it would have been if voters in 2016 had opted to remain in the E.U., according to one research institution. And investment in the auto sector was found to have plunged by almost 50 percent in 2018.What’s next? Parliament remains mired in disagreement and the E.U. disinclined to reopen matters. Sixty days out from the March 29 deadline to leave the bloc, uncertainty is spreading.Come again? As a BBC anchor ended an evening news program by saying, “Theresa May says she intends to go back to Brussels to renegotiate her Brexit deal,” the screen showed grainy images of World War II planes that appeared to be Spitfires. Watch here. President Trump told our reporters in an 85-minute interview on Thursday that negotiations with Congress over his border wall were a “waste of time” and that he would proceed without lawmakers. This weekend he will retreat to Mar-a-Lago — his gilded club where all is well.Russia investigation: Mr. Trump denied an account by his former lawyer, Michael Cohen, that late in the 2016 presidential campaign he was still discussing a project to build a Trump-branded skyscraper in Moscow. He also claimed that his lawyers had been reassured by the outgoing deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, that the president himself is not a target of the special counsel, Robert Mueller. Here are five takeaways from what Mr. Trump said.Trade: Mr. Trump spoke immediately after wrapping up a session with China’s visiting vice premier in which the president said they had made progress toward defusing the trade war. In other Washington news: The Senate voted to pass nonbinding bipartisan legislation that objects to Mr. Trump’s withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan and Syria, the second time in two months that the Senate has rebuked the president’s foreign policy.“Police investigators, tax officers, pro-government tabloids” have become the hammers of President Aleksandar Vucic and his populist, conservative Serbian Progressive Party. That was the testimony to the Council in Europe in November of Nebojsa Zelenovic, the mayor of Sabac, one of the few places not controlled by the governing party.
ROYAN, France — Two years after a clandestine impromptu training session on the hills of Tehran, Sadaf Khadem will become the first Iranian woman to contest an official boxing fight, hoping to lead the way in the Islamic Republic.The bout will take place in western France on Saturday after the 24-year-old met with Frenchman Mahyar Monshipour, an Iranian-born former super bantamweight world champion."In 2017, I went to Iran for a promotional event and I ended up organizing a public training session on the hills overlooking Tehran. About 35 people showed up, and there were six women," Monshipour told Reuters."She contacted me on social media to ask me to make her box but I told her it was not possible. Then about a couple of months ago the Iranian federation opened the door for women boxing and we asked them to set up an event. "But it became apparent that it would not be possible because they wanted a female coach, female referee... so with the help of the Sports ministry we made her come to France."Next week Khadem will return to Iran, where Monshipour expects her to be met with 'popular jubilation'. He will, however, travel back with her, just in case, to a country where women have started to take off their head scarves in a peaceful protest against the compulsory hijab."If she ends up in custody, I will not let her down," he said. Khadem took up boxing four years ago, being compelled to train in private fitness rooms since public boxing facilities are reserved for men. In Iran, women were allowed to attend a men's soccer game for the first last October."It is easier for wrestling and weightlifting because they are more in our culture," Khadem told Reuters after a training session on Thursday. BREAK THE DAMSome women fight but the bouts are illegal and being held in Turkey with no medical insurance. In France, Khadem trained at the National Institute of Sport and was handed a French license to practice and fight.For the first time she trained among men, and she burst into tears at the end of a session, overwhelmed by her emotions."My parents were worried when I started boxing but they saw I was really loving it so now they are supporting me. I'm now steaming ahead," said Khadem.
BRUSSELS — European summits, jaded Englishmen have said, are like soccer: they go into extra-time, and the Germans always win.For the journalists covering them, it is like commentating live on a match played behind closed doors: only partial information leaks out from self-promoting rival players, and even when it’s over, the final score is often far from clear.Another high-stakes summit coming up on Wednesday is likely to be a replay of the same fixture 10 days ago, when British Prime Minister Theresa May sat in late-night talks with fellow EU leaders trying to delay Brexit until June.Hundreds of journalists were gathered in the cavernous atrium of the Justus Lipsius Building, home to the European Council of EU national leaders.For Reuters, the game starts days before such summits begin. Reporters tap their sources in capitals across Europe and EU institutions in Brussels, trying to work out who wants what from the meeting.When the leaders file in, talking to cameras without translators in the 24 EU languages, our multilingual team relays their words instantly.Once they're in, the summit match starts in earnest.Last month, May began the closed-door meeting by explaining her plans and taking questions from peers. She was looking for an extension to the Brexit deadline to give her more time to try to win backing from Britain’s parliament for her plan to exit the European Union.The first sign of a story was that May's presentation before she had to leave the room lasted well over an hour, much longer than previous such sessions. But was that good or bad for Theresa May?One UK government source told us it had gone "OK". But our sources among EU officials and national diplomats made clear in hushed conversations and text messages that it had gone "very badly" for her indeed.A flurry of contradictory messages and rumors began to emerge. This is when reporters need to hold their nerve, when the urge to be quick can compete with the need to be right.As the other 27 discussed May's pitch among themselves, French President Emmanuel Macron was pushing to end the agony and get Britain out almost immediately. German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged caution. Europe's power couple huddled with summit chair Donald Tusk, drafting and redrafting a response to Britain.Outside the room, Bulgaria's ambassador tweeted a picture, worthy of Caravaggio, of envoys crowding round one version on a screen. (https://twitter.com/DTzantchev/status/1108807850397261826)Hours later, as reporters started preparing for yet another all-nighter, Reuters got word from upstairs of the breakthrough: a two-stage approach that might mean Brexit in May, or April. First word from one source a little after 10 p.m. meant rapid checks with others.At nearly midnight, all was confirmed in a flurry of news conferences. By 2 a.m. our final stories were published, a much earlier finish than some EU summits.
PARIS — President Emmanuel Macron of France said on Sunday that he wanted to create a national day of commemoration for the 1994 genocide in Rwanda, which has been a longstanding source of tension between the two countries.Mr. Macron said in a statement that he wanted to create a national day of remembrance on April 7, the date 25 years ago that Rwanda’s Hutu majority began systematically massacring members of the Tutsi minority, leaving an estimated 800,000 to one million people dead.“On this day of commemoration for the 25th anniversary of the Tutsi genocide in Rwanda, the president of the republic expresses his solidarity with the Rwandan people and his compassion for the victims and their families,” the statement said.Rwanda, led by President Paul Kagame, has long accused France of complicity in the genocide and of helping some of the perpetrators escape, poisoning ties between the two countries, even though relations have warmed since Mr. Macron’s election in 2017.France has been accused of providing weapons and military training to the Hutu-dominated government in the years that led up to the genocide, and of failing to prevent or even supporting the massacres when they started, despite the presence of French peacekeeping soldiers.Ibuka France, a group that advocates remembrance of the genocide, praised Mr. Macron’s announcement. Marcel Kabanda, the head of the group, told Agence France-Presse that Ibuka France had suggested the idea in a meeting with Mr. Macron on Friday.Mr. Macron did not say what the day of commemoration would entail or how he would create it. He could proceed by decree, or have his government present a bill in Parliament, where his party has a majority in the more powerful lower house.France has admitted mistakes in how it handled the killings but has always denied the accusations of complicity. After meeting with survivors and members of Ibuka France on Friday, Mr. Macron ordered a two-year government study of France’s role in the genocide.The study will be led by a commission of eight historians and researchers. They will have access to official French archives covering the period between 1990 and 1994 in order to “analyze the role and involvement of France” during the massacres and to help shape French school curriculums, Mr. Macron said.In Rwanda, a week of commemorations started on Sunday, as did 100 days of mourning for victims of the genocide. Mr. Kagame laid a wreath and lit a flame at the Gisozi memorial site in Kigali, the capital. Over 250,000 people are believed to be buried at the site.A remembrance walk was scheduled to go from the Rwandan Parliament building to the national soccer stadium. Several heads of state were expected to attend, but not Mr. Macron, who sent Hervé Berville, a member of France’s Parliament and survivor of the Rwandan genocide, as his representative.Mr. Berville, 29, was evacuated by the French Army at the age of 4 and adopted by a couple in Brittany. He was part of the wave of first-time politicians elected to the lower house of Parliament in 2017 for Mr. Macron’s party.“It is both a source of pride and a great responsibility to go there to represent France,” Mr. Berville told RFI radio on Tuesday.Mr. Macron also announced last week that more resources would be granted to the French judicial authorities who are working to identify and prosecute those suspected of perpetrating the genocide, some of whom fled to France after the violence ended.
Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union has provoked months of bitter division, but on Friday there was a break in the routine: an outbreak of affection and good will.In a tenderly written missive to Britons, more than two dozen leading figures in Germany — including Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, the favorite to become the country’s next chancellor — described their admiration for many things British, including its tea and beer, and their sorrow over the impending divorce.“After the horrors of the Second World War, Britain did not give up on us,” said the open letter published in The Times, the British newspaper favored by the establishment. It emphasized Germany’s appreciation that it had been welcomed back as a sovereign nation after the conflict and as a European power.“This we, as Germans, have not forgotten and we are grateful,” the letter went on, concluding that “Britons should know: From the bottom of our hearts, we want them to stay.”Norbert Röttgen, head of the German Parliament’s Committee on Foreign Affairs, who co-wrote the letter, said the signers decided they needed to say something after this week’s defeat of the British prime minister’s Brexit proposal.“The time was ripe to make sure that we raise our voice, and that we try to make it a German voice, to let the Brits know that while we fully respect what they decide, we do consider it a European affair,” Mr. Röttgen said. “We wanted to say what we feel, to express our convictions and our deep emotions.”[Read about an unlikely Brexit star, and villain: the speaker of the British House of Commons.]The intervention comes at a critical moment in Britain following the crushing rejection on Tuesday of Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan for withdrawal from the European Union, or Brexit. There is growing speculation that the deadlock could lead to a general election or a second referendum that might reverse the whole idea.It is unclear whether a lovebomb from figures as varied as the Airbus chief, Thomas Enders, and the punk rock singer Campino will have much impact. But at least one signatory to the letter commands some name recognition in Britain: Jens Lehmann, the former goalkeeper of Germany’s national soccer team.Behind the initiative lies concern in Berlin over the prospect that Britain may leave the European Union without an agreement, with economically damaging consequences for the entire continent.While the European Union — and especially France — took a tough line in negotiating the withdrawal, Britain and Germany have often agreed on economic issues in Brussels. But Brexit is destined to change the internal balance within the European Union, removing a country that has often been useful to Berlin politically and a big financial contributor to the bloc.Britons’ reaction to the letter was mixed, with some commenting on its folksy focus on the country’s “legendary black humor,” drinking tea with milk, Christmas pantomime and driving on the left.As enemies in two world wars in the 20th century, the two countries have a complicated relationship. Germany’s affection for Britain is not always reciprocated, despite widespread respect for the German postwar economic miracle and its modern-day success.Sporting rivalry is particularly fierce in soccer, where the record has at times been so grim for England that Gary Lineker, the TV host and former England international player, once described it as a game where “22 men chase a ball for 90 minutes and at the end, the Germans always win.”Whether the intervention will help or hinder the pro-Europeans in Britain’s Brexit debate is a moot point, as the British are prickly about anything that could be construed as outside interference in political discussions.
The shaky video clips of Julian Assange’s arrest flashed around the world on Thursday, the white-bearded prophet of the age of leaks being hauled by unsmiling security officers to a gray van marked Police.“We must resist!” he cried. “You can resist!” It was a scene that the very image-conscious Mr. Assange might appreciate: one man literally fighting the all-powerful state.It was also the latest — and surely not the last — dramatic turn in a career marked by both brilliant achievement and dubious judgment. Mr. Assange has long had a knack for celebrity, and as a tech-savvy, global, almost stateless figure, he captured the new influence the internet could give to individual citizens.[Read more about the arrest of Julian Assange.]His creation of WikiLeaks helped empower a generation of whistle-blowers and disgruntled insiders who could operate on an industrial scale, providing disclosures by the terabyte and enraging the powerful in many countries. WikiLeaks collaborated closely with major world publications, including The New York Times, in the release of secret records on the American-led wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and a quarter-million confidential State Department cables.But Mr. Assange has always elicited fervent reactions: He has been hailed as a hero of free information, or despised as a treacherous criminal worthy of death by drone — often depending on what WikiLeaks had recently been up to. Though he has always described himself as a journalist, he has been far too much of an activist to be satisfied with the role of neutral and fair-minded provider of information.He has proved a highly problematic, even embarrassing champion for the principles of press freedom and the public’s right to information, especially in recent years. For the past seven, he was hiding out at Ecuador’s tiny redbrick embassy in London, not just from American prosecutors, but also from Swedish sex-crime investigators, who eventually closed their case.Mr. Assange, the world’s most famous self-proclaimed political refugee, lived there with his cat in a small corner room. He continued to run WikiLeaks, conducted news conferences before hundreds of fawning admirers from a balcony, rode his skateboard in the halls and played host to a parade of visitors, including Lady Gaga and Pamela Anderson, a rumored lover who brought with her vegan sandwiches.The arrest came at the end of a meandering legal path that began in 2010, when the Justice Department announced it was investigating WikiLeaks. Obama administration officials eventually dropped the idea, persuaded by press advocates that prosecuting WikiLeaks would set a dangerous precedent because many mainstream news organizations regularly publish classified information.In 2016, some of Mr. Assange’s former American sympathizers turned sharply against him after he made WikiLeaks into an enthusiastic instrument of Russia’s intervention in the American presidential election, doling out hacked Democratic emails to maximize their political effect, campaigning against Hillary Clinton on Twitter and promoting a false cover story about the source of the leaks.That performance drew voluble praise from her opponent, Donald J. Trump, who regularly read from leaked Clinton campaign emails in his 2016 stump speeches and declared, “I love WikiLeaks.” But months later, while he was president, WikiLeaks posted a collection of classified documents on the C.I.A.’s hacking tools, and Mr. Trump’s first C.I.A. chief, Mike Pompeo, called Mr. Assange “a narcissist” and labeled the organization “a nonstate hostile intelligence service.”His words were a harbinger of the single charge of conspiracy to commit computer intrusion against Mr. Assange that the Justice Department unsealed on Thursday.In some ways, Mr. Assange, 47, has never fully shed the rebellious, secretive ways of the precocious Australian teenager with a complicated family background who, with two pals, formed a hacking collective called the International Subversives. In the 1997 book “Underground,” a lengthy account of the young hackers written by Suelette Dreyfus and crediting Mr. Assange as “researcher,” a hacker with the nickname Mendax clearly resembles the young Julian.Mendax found the small Australian town where Mr. Assange lived with his mother, Emerald, “dead boring,” the book says. “Sometimes Mendax went to school. Often he didn’t. The school system didn’t hold much interest for him.” A vulnerable computer network in Sydney, the book says, “was a far more interesting place to muck around in than the rural high school.”In 1991, at age 20, Mr. Assange was charged with a long list of hacking offenses, to which he pleaded guilty and got off with a fine and a warning. “There is just no evidence that there was anything other than sort of intelligent inquisitiveness and the pleasure of being able to — what’s the expression — surf through these various computers,” the judge said at his sentencing, according to an account in The New Yorker.
KNUTSFORD, England — That day, Raheem Sterling looked up, and tuned in. Ordinarily when he is on the field, he loses himself so completely in the game that the noise of the crowd becomes an indistinct murmur, each voice lost in the hum of tens of thousands.But as Sterling approached the touchline to collect the ball for a corner kick in Manchester City’s Premier League game at Chelsea on Dec. 8, something forced him to switch his focus.He remembers making eye contact with a handful of fans in the front row of the Matthew Harding Stand at Stamford Bridge. Like all players, and as one of his country’s best players, he is used to hostility, particularly away from home. But what he could see was different. It looked, to him, like hatred.“The way they were looking at me, I had to see where all this anger was coming from,” he said. “I was listening in to hear what they were saying.” What he picked up, he said, he dismissed immediately: “Nah, that can’t be what I heard.”Video suggested his suspicion was right. One fan, in particular, appeared to have screamed a racial obscenity at him. The consequences added credence: Not long after the game ended, Chelsea announced it had barred four fans from attending games, pending an investigation into whether Sterling had been racially abused. The incident was reported to the London police. It was neither Sterling’s first racist encounter — as a teenager, he once was head-butted by a stranger on a Liverpool street — nor the first time he had experienced racism in an English stadium. In his first match at Everton’s Goodison Park after joining Manchester City, he said, he was walking toward the tunnel when a boy with his father called him a “black something.”As he left Stamford Bridge that evening in December, though, Sterling, 24, kept churning over what he had heard, what had happened. By the time he returned to Manchester, he decided that it was “too much now.” He wanted to say something.He spent all night thinking of the best way to do it. He did some research, got his thoughts in order. The next morning, as he sat in the back seat of a car on the 30-minute drive from his home to Manchester City’s training facility, he composed a 207-word message to accompany his thoughts. It focused not just on what had happened at Stamford Bridge, but why. Sterling posted it, with two images, to his Instagram account.“I am not normally the person to talk a lot,” the message began. “But when I think I need my point to be heard I will speak up.”A few weeks ago, Sterling returned to visit friends near Wembley, the part of northwest London where he grew up. He remains intimately connected to the place: He said he was in discussions with the local council to find an appropriate site for a sporting and educational institute, somewhere to provide opportunities for children (and their parents) from backgrounds similar to his.It is a personal and, until now, a private thing, something he says is less his responsibility as a professional athlete and more an innate desire to “show light” to a new generation. He wants his story to give others like him hope.“Not just to be a footballer,” Sterling said, “but to do whatever they want to do.”It is not hard to find inspiration in Sterling’s rise. His story has long been crowbarred into the narrative often expected of athletes: the deprived upbringing, the triumph over adversity, that comforting fairy tale told of so many athletes in which greatness flowers best in soil left untended.His father was shot dead in Jamaica when he was 2. His mother moved to England in the hope of giving her children a better life. Sterling remembers her “fight to get jobs,” the long hours she put in, the days he and his sister would help her clean hotel rooms before school.Sterling has always been keen not to allow exaggerations to flourish, to correct any poetic license taken by those telling his story. In 2016, he told The Mail on Sunday that his childhood home was not in a “rough, rough” area; in a piece for The Players’ Tribune last year, he said that while his family never had much money, his mother always made sure he and his sister had what they needed.
DAKAR, Senegal — They sprint. They sweat. They squat to the ground and bounce backward. They sit side-by-side and lock arms for group situps. They dig trenches in the sand for stability, to get more out of each push up.And, then, when the rush-hour traffic really backs up and exhaust fumes pour across this little, sandy triangle of an outdoor gym bordered by a highway and two exit ramps, sometimes the athletes vomit.“Sports and pollution,” said Joseph Faye, a wrestling coach who was grappling with other young men there on a recent evening, “they don’t go together.”Increasingly in Dakar, where outdoor exercise is a way of life, the two are colliding.On any given evening, thousands of runners, wrestlers, soccer players and fitness fanatics take to the beaches and streets for a strenuous workout.Practically the whole city transforms into a California-like muscle beach with bodies grunting and panting and pushing themselves to extremes on any empty patch of land.Sprinters mount a lighthouse-topped hill or fly down the steps leading from a grand mosque. Body builders lift chunks of broken concrete and heave themselves up on a rusty metal rod stretched across two wooden poles.Backward exercising is a thing, with throngs of people squatting and sprinting in reverse.But with every breath, these exercisers are inhaling air that the World Health Organization considers dangerous. Dakar’s air exceeds by more than five times the limits set by the World Health Organization of the amount of small particles that when inhaled can damage health.The air in Dakar, with its windswept coastal roadway and waves lapping against craggy bluffs, sometimes can appear deceptively clear.Other times, especially this time of year when a dust storm rolls in and traffic backs up, it can feel like walking through a cloud of chalk dust after someone bangs two erasers together, inside an oven.“It’s a real problem for respiratory diseases,” said Nafissatou Oumar Toure Badiane, the chief of pulmonology at Fann University Hospital in Dakar, who noted that the number of childhood asthma cases at one of the city’s biggest hospitals had recently jumped.She estimated that a third of the population has some kind of lung ailment.And there are signs that air quality here is getting worse.Dakar is growing, having almost doubled in size in the past decade as people pour in from the countryside and nearby nations in search of jobs. Some of its five million inhabitants are farmers who have given up in the wake of chronic drought dating to the 70s.
DUBLIN — Ireland's state-funded sport coordination body suspended future funding to the Football Association of Ireland (FAI) on Tuesday after the football body acknowledged that it failed to comply with its grant approval terms.Sport Ireland, which has been demanding answers from the FAI over a 100,000 euro (£86,451) short-term loan provided to it by former chief executive John Delaney, said the acknowledgement was made in a written statement the FAI was due to deliver to a parliamentary committee on Wednesday.Delaney, who was moved to a new role of executive vice-president at the FAI shortly after details of the loan were first reported, is due to appear before the committee with other officials on Wednesday to answer questions over a story that has made frontpage news in Ireland in the last month.In the FAI's statement to the committee, a copy of which was seen by Reuters, chairman Donal Conway said circumstances arose in April 2017 -- when it received the loan -- that were not related to Sport Ireland in line with grant approval conditions.The FAI said last month that the loan was needed due to short-term cash flow issues and that it was repaid in full two months later. Sport Ireland, however, said it was never notified about any deterioration in finances, as the FAI would have been obliged to do. "The Board of Sport Ireland will consider the reinstatement of funding once all ongoing reports commissioned by the FAI have been completed and the recommendations adopted," it said in a statement, referring to reviews the FAI has commissioned from audit firm Mazars and accountant Grant Thornton.The FAI, which generated a retained surplus of 2.8 million euros on revenues of 49 million in 2017, its last set of published reports, receives annual funding of 2.7 million euros from the state. It has already drawn down half of it for 2019.The FAI said it was unfortunate Sport Ireland felt compelled to suspend the funding, which was crucial to the development of Irish soccer."The Association is keen to restore trust and confidence and rebuild the relationship with Sport Ireland as soon as possible," FAI chairman Conway said in a statement.Lawmakers due to quiz the FAI on Wednesday welcomed the suspension and said they would also seek answers about the decision to move Delaney to another position in the association."It's a damning indictment that such shoddy financial and corporate governance practices were permitted. Hopefully this is the start of a real change," Noel Rock, a member of the governing Fine Gael party, said on Twitter. (Reporting by Padraic Halpin; Editing by Hugh Lawson and Toby Davis)
(Reuters) - Brazil's female footballers have made great strides in growing their domestic game but they lack the organisation to emulate the United States team and demand the same pay and conditions as men, defender Erika told Reuters on Tuesday.The Brazilian Football Confederation (CBF) this year obliged all first division clubs to create a women's side and are funding them directly, officials said.But their income is still vastly inferior to their male counterparts and Erika said she is envious of the World Cup-winning U.S. squad, 28 of whom sued the U.S. Soccer Federation last month in a lawsuit that includes complaints about wages and working conditions."I think it is sensational what the U.S. players did," she said in a phone interview from Spain, the day after Brazil lost 1-0 to Scotland in a friendly, their ninth consecutive defeat."We have the strength to do the same in Brazil but we don't have courage or the (people) to guide us."The U.S. women are a gigantic force. They have won a lot and that makes it easier for them to fight for what they want. We need to be united but we haven't managed that."Erika blamed that lack of unity on geography. Most of the Brazilian women play their club football outside the country and get together only for international games, which makes organising more difficult."I think distance is a problem," the 31-year-old Corinthians defender said. "The principal players are based outside the country and that makes it more complicated, if they were all able to be here it would make it easier to develop, and we'd be stronger. "Sadly, we still think individually."The Brazilian players nevertheless looked at recent big crowds for women's matches in Spain and Italy – a world record 60,739 people turned out to see Atletico Madrid take on Barcelona last month - as indicative of the growing power of the female game.Women's football has gained a higher profile this year in Brazil, with the CBF paying to help women's teams compete in the 16-team first division and also setting up a second division and under-18 league. "Without a doubt here has been a huge growth and there is a long way to go," Erika said. "I want to see the kind of crowds we saw in Madrid in Brazil. It inspires us."Brazil are one of 24 teams who will take part in the Women's World Cup in France from June 7-July 7. (Reporting by Andrew Downie; Editing by Christian Radnedge)
MANCHESTER, England — Not once, no matter how bad the temptation or how high the stakes or how deep his frustration, has Pep Guardiola done what he is supposed to do. He has not called Liverpool lucky, or hinted at a conspiracy among referees in awarding penalties at Anfield, or questioned whether his chief rival had the resolve to stay the course.Instead, Guardiola, the Manchester City manager, has been unremittingly, unapologetically positive. Liverpool and its manager, Jürgen Klopp, kept him awake at night, he said earlier this season. He has called Klopp the best manager in the world for crafting high-energy teams. He has said, as recently as last week, that he expects Liverpool to win all of its remaining games in the Premier League.Klopp, of course, has been just as bad. Manchester City, he said around Christmas, is the best team in the world. A few weeks later, he said he had tried to find a weakness in Guardiola’s team, and come up short.This is not the usual timbre of discourse in a Premier League title race, particularly one so delicately poised that at this late stage, a single misstep from one would, most likely, hand the crown to the other. Much more familiar is the sort of playground psychological warfare practiced by Alex Ferguson and José Mourinho, where every word was a provocation.Initially, then, it was easy to assume that Klopp and Guardiola were simply trying to kill each other with kindness, even if it was not immediately clear what advantage, for example, Klopp’s describing Manchester City as “the best team in the world” might confer on Liverpool.So powerful is the legacy of Ferguson, so deep-seated the obsession with mind games, that it has taken a while to realize that there are no thorns hidden among the garlands, to remember that praise can have a function other than piling pressure on an opponent. Not everything is a play. Klopp admires the team Guardiola has built. Guardiola respects the transformation Klopp has overseen. It is the same among the players: Virgil van Dijk has voted for Raheem Sterling as player of the year. The ultimate destination of the title will not change that. Compliments can be sincere.With the race so tight — Liverpool (82 points) ahead at the moment, but City (80) with a game in hand — that mutual admiration does not extend to the fans of the two clubs, of course. There is no particular historical enmity between Manchester City and Liverpool, but over the last year a distinctly modern rivalry has started to take shape.At first, it seemed to manifest primarily online, performative and point-scoring, in which Liverpool resented City’s wealth, ambition and relevance, and City chafed at Liverpool’s history and fame. Over the last year that has changed, bleeding into the three-dimensional world, invoked in songs that sweep down from the stands at the Etihad Stadium, in particular.The great flash point, of course, was the attack on Manchester City’s team bus outside Anfield before last year’s meeting in the Champions League quarterfinals, an act met with outright and understandable fury by City. The direct competition between the teams this season, the fact that their fortunes are so inextricably intertwined, has served only to oxidize it.Even as the animus on the outside has hardened, relations on the inside remain cordial. When an article appeared earlier this year suggesting Fenway Sports Group, Liverpool’s owner, was leading a campaign to persuade the Premier League to investigate Manchester City’s breaches of Financial Fair Play rules, Liverpool moved quickly to offer City assurances that was not the case.The connections are even closer among the staff. Two of Liverpool’s senior scouts, Dave Fallows and Barry Hunter, were recruited from City; so, too, was Lee Nobes, the head physiotherapist; Mona Nemmer, Klopp’s head of nutrition, worked with Guardiola at Bayern Munich (and made such an impression that when he first arrived in England, Guardiola asked if the clubs might be able to share her expertise).Rodolfo Borrell, a key member of Guardiola’s coaching staff, meanwhile, made his name at Barcelona, but was first brought to England by Liverpool; he spent more than four years on Merseyside before moving to City in 2014. Darren Hughes, the lead coach at City’s academy, is among three staff members hired from Liverpool the same year.There is a limit to those bonds, of course. There is a lingering sense among some at City that Liverpool is offered preferential treatment by the news media, has a larger contingent of former players in television studios than is easily justified and receives rather more coverage than its recent achievements warrant. After the team waited three decades for a championship, Liverpool’s desperation is plain; for City, the pleasure of a fourth title in seven years would be heightened by the identity of its vanquished opponent.In a way, though, each team should be grateful for the other. City’s excellence has served to accelerate Liverpool’s improvement, persuading Fenway Sports Group to make Alisson Becker (briefly) the world’s most expensive goalkeeper, and to turn van Dijk into the costliest defender in history. City had set such high standards that there was simply no other choice but to invest; anything else would have been acquiescence to fate.And while Manchester City fans might have found last season’s procession to the title — when City became the first team in history to record 100 points — substantially less stressful, Liverpool’s emergence as a genuine rival has not diminished City’s greatness. Rather, it has accentuated it.
JACKSON COUNTY, Tenn. — Authorities say a diver who helped save a youth soccer team from a flooded cave in Thailand last year has himself been rescued from a cave in Tennessee.Jackson County Emergency Management spokesman Derek Woolbright said Josh Bratchley had been missing for nearly 28 hours when he was found Wednesday night and pulled from the cave. He was checked out at the scene, but said he was fine and declined medical treatment.Woolbright told news outlets that a group of experienced divers had reported one of its members missing after a dive. A larger search found him in an air pocket.Bratchley was part of a British team that rescued 12 soccer players and their coach from a flooded cave in Thailand.
LIVERPOOL, England — Mohamed Salah’s name flashed up on the scoreboard. It rang out of Anfield’s public address system. It rolled and roiled down the stands and washed onto the field and into the sky, infused with jubilation and wonder, with relief and belief.It was, though, wishful thinking. The last-minute goal that had given Liverpool an ill-deserved and scarcely explicable 2-1 victory against Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday, the strike that restored Jürgen Klopp’s team to the top of the Premier League — until Wednesday, at least — and that ensured Manchester City still cannot, technically, afford even one slip did not belong to Salah. Deep down, everyone in the stadium knew the truth: the goal, if it belonged to anyone, belonged to chaos.There is a tendency, as seasons draw to a close and prizes begin to be claimed, to imbue certain moments with particular importance, to believe that specific games and specific goals were not just decisive but defining: when trophies were won and lost, the fulcrum on which the whole season turned, the proof of the gray hand of destiny at work.Fans do it. Managers do it. Journalists and commentators do it, without fail, pretty much every Monday, obsessive saturation coverage demanding that no sooner have events ended than conclusions are drawn, that no weekend must pass without one thing or another having been decided or proved or finished. It is sport’s nod to Thomas Carlyle: a great moment theory of history.It is a comforting idea. By appointing certain moments as key, the long, exhausting stretch of a season comes to seem — even if only in retrospect — somehow more ordered; a structured, coherent whole seems to bloom from a morass of happenstance. It allows us to apportion merit, and blame, and to establish the parameters and boundaries of success. It means we can make sense of the randomness.It is, though, a myth. Seasons are, by definition, collections of moments; discerning which one is the one on which everything hinged, which one is more important than all the others, is an impossibility.For Liverpool this season, there have been half a dozen, at least. Daniel Sturridge’s late equalizer at Chelsea, way back in September, the goal that maintained an unbeaten start to the campaign; Divock Origi’s freakish winner in December’s Merseyside derby; the late penalty missed by Riyad Mahrez in October that ensured Manchester City did not win at Anfield; Origi’s miss, deep into injury time, against West Ham in February (for a reserve who has barely played this year, Origi seems to have been identified by fate as a person of immense interest).It is the same, of course, for City. The defending Premier League champion has seemed, at times, almost to breeze through much of the season, sweeping inferior opponents aside with little fuss and considerable style, but there are instants City will remember, too: the missed chances in defeat to Chelsea, perhaps, or Ricardo Pereira’s late winner for Leicester City; the shot from Sadio Mané that, somehow, did not cross the line when Liverpool visited the Etihad Stadium; the shot from Leroy Sané that, later on that evening, very much did.These are all the moments on which the season turned; not all of them can be worthy of that title. There were two alone in the final 10 minutes of Sunday’s game. First, Moussa Sissoko burst clear for Tottenham, only Virgil Van Dijk and Alisson Becker standing in his way, the chance not just to inflict untold damage Liverpool’s title hopes in his grasp. Van Dijk forced him to shoot; his effort rose and rose, flying high over the crossbar. Anfield breathed again.And then, with just a minute left to play, Trent Alexander-Arnold lifted in a cross — first time, too high, more in hope than expectation — and Salah, ghosting in at the far post, managed to meet it. His header was soft, and straight at Hugo Lloris; the moment seemed to have gone. For reasons that remain unclear, Lloris fumbled the ball. It fell onto Toby Alderweireld’s foot, and dribbled, in comical slow motion, across the line. Salah wheeled away in celebration, claiming the goal as his own, as if he only needed to believe it to make it so.It was not his goal, though. It was Alderweireld’s, if it was anyone’s, but really it was a strike against the idea that, even at this most rarefied level, there is a navigable structure to events. It was a reminder that not everything happens for a reason, that there is no overarching narrative, other than that which will be retrofitted with the benefit of hindsight; that sometimes, everything is chaos.The consequence is that, as the Premier League enters its final stretch, Liverpool has a two-point lead, but Manchester City has a game in hand. The former has the greater pressure, a three-decade wait for a league championship bearing down on a group of players who have never won a trophy together. The latter has the greater workload, with a game roughly every three days between now and mid-May, should progress be assured both in the Champions League and F.A. Cup.City is the favorite. Liverpool, as Klopp has said on several occasions, refuses to go away. The test now, perhaps, is how well Pep Guardiola’s team can cope with its hectic schedule as it chases glory on four fronts, and how well Liverpool can manage its nerves.The closest Premier League title race since 2012 will be settled by whichever frays first. Nothing, ultimately, is finished yet. All of those moments have come and gone. All of them have felt significant, seismic, in their immediate aftermath, little shafts of clarity in the overwhelming mood of uncertainty that descends on a situation this tight, this tense.There are six weeks to play, a handful of games, and there is still only one slip, one failure of concentration, one poor performance, in it. None of those moments has proved decisive: ultimately, irrevocably decisive. That is, as of now, still to come. It is April, and the season has not yet turned.
NEW YORK — Taylor Swift, TV journalist Gayle King and soccer star Mohamed Salah are among the six famous faces featured on the covers of Time's annual "100 Most Influential People in the World" issue.The other cover stars also included House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and actors Sandra Oh and Dwayne Johnson.Fellow Democrat Hillary Clinton wrote Pelosi "is living proof that when it comes to getting the job done, more often than not, it takes a woman."Johnson was praised for establishing a positive work environment, while Oh is cited for her creative life.Musician Shawn Mendes wrote Swift "makes anyone older feel young again."The issue is comprised of short tributes written by fellow global luminaries throughout all industries.Beyoncé penned an essay on former first lady Michelle Obama. President Donald Trump and Special Counsel Robert Mueller were also on this year's list.___This story has been corrected to show the singer's last name is Mendes, not Mendez, and the soccer star's last name is Salah, not Saleh.
Nevada law enforcement officials investigating a sexual-assault accusation against the soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo have requested a sample of the player’s DNA from the Italian authorities, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department confirmed Thursday evening.Mr. Ronaldo, a Portuguese wing and five-time world player of the year, plays in Italy for the powerhouse club Juventus.“The LVMPD is taking the same steps in this case as in any other sexual assault to facilitate the collection of DNA evidence,” Laura Meltzer, a spokeswoman for the Las Vegas police, said in a statement. The department declined to give any additional information about the investigation.Investigators are seeking the DNA sample as part of a recently reopened investigation into accusations by an American woman, Kathryn Mayorga, who said Mr. Ronaldo raped her in a Las Vegas hotel room in 2009 and later paid her $375,000 for her silence.“Mr. Ronaldo has always maintained, as he does today, that what occurred in Las Vegas in 2009 was consensual in nature, so it is not surprising that DNA would be present, nor that the police would make this very standard request as part of their investigation,” one of Ronaldo’s lawyers, Peter S. Christiansen, said in a statement Thursday.Juventus declined to comment.Mr. Ronaldo and his lawyers repeatedly denied the rape accusation when it first emerged in October; Mr. Ronaldo labeled them “fake news” in a video posted on one of his social media accounts, and at one point his lawyers threatened to sue the German newsmagazine that was the first to publish Mayorga’s accusations.The magazine, Der Spiegel, said it had obtained confidential documents related to the case, and the purported payment to settle it, from the shadowy whistle-blower platform Football Leaks. Around the same time, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said it had reopened its investigation into the alleged rape, following up on information it said had been provided to them by the victim.A number of the documents Ms. Mayorga’s lawyers say support her claim were published by Der Spiegel, which also published a lengthy interview with Ms. Mayorga. Mr. Ronaldo’s lawyers described the publication of the documents, which included a questionnaire Der Spiegel said detailed events that occurred in a suite at the Palms hotel almost a decade ago, as “blatantly illegal.”Mr. Ronaldo, now 33, was a star at England’s Manchester United when he met Ms. Mayorga, now 35, at a Las Vegas nightclub in 2009, just before his record-breaking transfer to Real Madrid. He invited her and others to his suite in the early hours of June 13, 2009, she said.According to her lawsuit, Ms. Mayorga reported the assault to the police later that day and received a medical examination, during which evidence was collected in what is sometimes known as a rape kit. The Las Vegas police have acknowledged that Ms. Mayorga filed a report and was examined, but the police said she did not name her attacker at that time. The case was reopened at Ms. Mayorga’s request in September.News of the warrant came two days after a second woman, Jasmine Lennard, an English model and reality television star who previously wrote a tell-all about her relationship with Mr. Ronaldo, accused him of violent behavior in a series of posts on Twitter.In more than a dozen posts, Ms. Lennard said Mr. Ronaldo had threatened to “have me kidnapped and have my body cut up and put in a bag and thrown in a river” if she dated somebody else. She also tweeted offers of help to Ms. Mayorga’s lawyers.She did not share the “hundreds of messages” she said she had kept, however, and later deleted her Twitter account. In a statement provided to a British newspaper, Mr. Ronaldo’s legal team said the player had never had contact with Ms. Lennard, and would take “appropriate legal action in due course.”Ms. Lennard could not be reached for comment on her accusations.
The organizing committee of FIFA announced Monday that it would recommend the use of video assistant referee technology at the Women’s World Cup this summer, bringing refereeing advances introduced at the men’s World Cup in Russia last year to soccer’s most important women’s championship for the first time. The decision, which is expected to be approved by the governing FIFA Council when it meets later this month in Miami, is a victory for women’s soccer players, coaches and fans who have highlighted gender equality issues in the international game.The technology, known by the acronym V.A.R., allows the on-field referee to consult with a colleague viewing video replays to help confirm, or overturn, close calls in a narrow set of instances. It was fully implemented for the first time at a major FIFA tournament last summer at the men’s World Cup, where FIFA hailed its introduction as a rousing success.But as the 2019 Women’s World Cup came into view, FIFA repeatedly declined to confirm whether V.A.R. would be at that competition as well, turning the issue into another flash point — alongside artificial turf fields and unequal compensation and bonuses — in the broader gender equity debate in soccer.On the V.A.R. point, at least, the debate seems finally to be settled.Gianni Infantino, the president of FIFA, said last weekend that he supported the use of the technology at the women’s event in June, stating that it was proving effective at discouraging the type of diving and playacting that often plague major soccer tournaments.“Players now know that it’s not just sufficient to have a look where is the referee, so if he doesn’t see me I can simulate, because he or she will be caught,” Infantino said, according to The Associated Press. “That’s why V.A.R. automatically helps the fight against simulation and diving in a very efficient way.”Referees for the Women’s World Cup began training with the video technology this winter at a series of seminars in Abu Dhabi and Doha. FIFA later said some had been introduced to the technology as early as 2016.Still, as this summer’s tournament in France approached, questions lingered about whether there would be enough time to get all of the untrained officials up to speed and comfortable with the protocols. FIFA on Monday said their progress had been satisfactory.“Based on the thorough work carried out over the past few months, FIFA is happy with the steps taken and the excellent job done by FIFA’s refereeing team and the female referees involved,” Zvonimir Boban, the deputy secretary general of FIFA, said in a statement. “We are confident about proposing the use of V.A.R. in France to the FIFA Council, as we are very positive about its implementation.”V.A.R. technology is quickly becoming an indispensable, if still sometimes controversial, presence at the top men’s competitions in the world. Many leagues and competitions — from Major League Soccer in the United States to Germany’s Bundesliga and England’s F.A. Cup — already use the system. European soccer officials announced in December that they would introduce it for the knockout rounds of this year’s Champions League, the world’s richest club competition.In a recent interview with The New York Times, United States Coach Jill Ellis said she felt it was “hugely important” that the use of V.A.R. in the women’s game kept pace with its spread on the men’s side.“First and foremost, we’ve got to fight for what’s going to help the game,” she said. “You can just see the benefit of it. It’s proven.”Becky Sauerbrunn, a longtime defender for the United States team, and a member of its 2015 Women’s World Cup champions, said that while the V.A.R. issue was far from the most pressing gender equality issue in international soccer, it symbolized the many little ways that FIFA can make the women’s game feel like an afterthought.For her, its use was just a matter of common sense.“For me it’s, why not?” Sauerbrunn said. “Why not give it to the women if you give it to the men?”
DUBLIN — Former Football Association of Ireland (FAI) boss John Delaney offered on Monday to leave the governing body completely, the FAI said, amid criticism from fans, players and politicians over the association's corporate governance practices.Delaney, who was moved to a newly-created role of executive vice-president just 24 days ago after it was first reported he provided the FAI with a 100,000 euro ($113,010) loan in 2017, faced criticism, including from Ireland's prime minister, for refusing to answer questions about the funds in front of a parliamentary committee.The short-term loan, which the FAI said it needed to relieve cash-flow issues in 2017 and avoid breaking its 1.5 million euro overdraft limit, has been a major news story in Ireland and led to investigations into the association's finances and corporate governance, as well as calls for sweeping board changes.The FAI's state funding was suspended last week as the failure to disclose the deterioration in its finance at the time contravened grant approval rules."John Delaney has offered to voluntarily step aside from carrying out his role as Executive Vice-President with immediate effect pending the completion of an independent investigation by the association into issues of concern to the board," the FAI said in a statement.Two other long-standing members of the 11-person board -- Honorary Secretary Michael Cody and Honorary Treasurer Eddie Murray - also voluntarily resigned on Monday. Delaney did not answer questions from reporters as he left a meeting with the board on Monday.Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar said on Friday that he did not think anyone would be satisfied by Delaney's appearance at the committee, where, aside from reading an opening statement, he remained silent through most of the five-hour hearing.Delaney told the committee he offered the loan as the FAI potentially only had a few hours to resolve its cash-flow issues and that he recalled asking the association's then finance director if any disclosure obligations arose from it.Following the meeting, two of the FAI's main sponsors, sportswear manufacturer New Balance and mobile phone operator Three, called on the FAI to quickly implement recommendations from reports it has commissioned into its corporate governance.Groups representing supporters and players also demanded that Delaney, who is a member of European soccer body UEFA's executive committee, leave the association he took charge of in 2004.Lawmakers were told last week that only three members of the FAI's board were made aware of the loan in April 2017 and FAI chairman Donal Conway said the association would handle cash flow issues differently if they occurred again.The Sunday Times newspaper, which first reported details of the loan, reported on Sunday that Delaney spent almost 40,000 euros on his work credit card in the space of six months shortly before he had to personally bail out the association.Citing credit card statements, the newspaper said the charges included duty-free purchases, meals in Delaney's local pub and cash withdrawals of more than 6,000 euros.The FAI did not respond to questions from Reuters over whether the alleged use of the credit card contravened its rules and Delaney's solicitor did not respond when asked to comment on the report.
They arrived in the offseason at a combined cost of $140 million, with the intention of bringing a new dimension to Liverpool's midfield.Fabinho would be the pure, out-and-out holding midfielder the team had been missing for a few years. Naby Keita would be the energetic, goal-scoring, box-to-box runner in the mold of Steven Gerrard.It has taken eight months — and some initial skepticism — but they are finally proving their worth to a team that could yet end the season as the Premier League champions, not to mention Champions League winners.The goals from Liverpool's three-pronged strikeforce of Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino speak for themselves. The defense, marshalled by the dominant Virgil van Dijk, is deservedly getting plaudits for the being the meanest in the league.But Liverpool manager Juergen Klopp at last might have his ideal midfield to complete the team.Much to his initial frustration, Fabinho was eased slowly into English soccer by Klopp following a move from Monaco for 50 million euros ($58 million). The Brazil international has underlined his versatility by filling in at center back — and even right back — but is now a mainstay as the team's midfield anchorman, his long legs and reading of the game regularly breaking up opposition attacks.Keita has taken even longer to feel at home since joining from Leipzig for a reported 70 million euros (then $85 million). Some turns and flicks aside, the Guinea midfielder has produced largely forgettable performances in his first season for Liverpool as he struggled to get attuned to the pressing game required in Klopp's team.But he has started Liverpool's last three games and scored in two of them — his first goals for the club. Even though he didn't score in the 2-0 win over Chelsea on Sunday that kept Liverpool in first place by two points, Keita regularly popped up in or around the box to give Chelsea's defenders another player to think about apart from Mane, Salah and Firmino."It is not easy to move from Germany to change club, especially as the league is not the same," said Mane, who briefly played with Keita at Red Bull Salzburg in 2014. "It is part of the things you have to deal with and he is working hard every single day."The real Naby is coming still."Tellingly, the blossoming of Fabinho and Keita has given Jordan Henderson some license and freedom to get forward, and the captain is in arguably his best form this season. Henderson changed the game when coming on as a substitute in the 3-1 win over Southampton on April 5 and set up Mane's opening goal against Chelsea with a delicate cross after bursting into the box.Henderson recently revealed he went to Klopp's office to speak to the manager about playing further forward, having spent most of the season as the holding midfielder in front of the defense. Fabinho's emergence has enabled Klopp to make that switch and Henderson looks, for the moment anyway, to have ousted Georginio Wijnaldum from the lineup.It is a tough call on Wijnaldum, who has been one of the best players not just for Liverpool but in the Premier League.But these are the ebbs and flows of a long season and the Fabinho-Keita-Henderson triumvirate looks to be Liverpool's new-look midfield. Expect them to be first choice for the final games of the season as the team chases titles at home and in Europe.___
The Red Bulls rallied from a scoreless first half to rout the visiting San Jose Earthquakes, 4-1, on Saturday behind two goals from Alex Muyl.The Red Bulls, who had the top record in M.L.S. in 2018, improved to 1-0-1. San Jose, which had the worst record, is now 0-3-0.Yet the Earthquakes turned in an inspired effort and had a 1-0 lead at the end of the first half. But in the second, the Red Bulls drew even a little more than five minutes in, and the momentum shifted.Bradley Wright-Phillips drilled a shot that forced San Jose goalie Daniel Vega to the ground for a diving deflection. The ball went to the left, and to Daniel Royer.Royer sent it back across the goal to Muyl, who first-timed it into the net to tie the game at 1-1.In the 71st minute, the Red Bulls made it 2-1, again on the efforts of Royer and Muyl. Royer took the ball to the end line before cutting it back to the middle. The ball deflected off a San Jose defender, forcing it into the air. When it came down, Muyl was waiting, volleying it home for the lead.Wright-Phillips made it 3-1 with five minutes left in regular time, converting a pass from Sean Davis. Royer got the last goal, putting home a cross from Michael Murillo in the final minute of the game.San Jose scored in the fifth minute. Magnus Eriksson found Cristian Espinoza down the right side. Espinoza pushed it into the box and then beat goalie Luis Robles to his right.
This photo gallery highlights some of the top news images made by Associated Press photographers in Latin America and the Caribbean that were published in the past week.Rival political factions took to the streets across Venezuela in a struggle for control of the crisis-wracked nation recently hit by crippling blackouts, as Vice President Mike Pence urged the U.N. to recognize an opposition leader as Venezuela's president in place of Nicolás Maduro.In Paraguay, more than 20,000 people were evacuated after torrential rains caused extensive flooding. Heavy rains killed at least 10 people and also left a trail of destruction in Rio de Janeiro.Also this week in Brazil, soldiers mistook a man's car for the vehicle of criminals and it was hit by 80 gunshots, killing him and wounding his wife's stepfather, according to Rio authorities.Female Bolivian officers introduced a litter of Golden Retriever puppies to be trained as police dogs, during a skills presentation of the K-9 unit. A girl and her father fed the pigeons in Havana on the day Communist Party leader Raúl Castro warned that Cubans should brace for worsening shortages due to Trump administration policies.Argentina's Racing Club soccer team celebrated winning their ninth national league trophy. Queratoro and Cruz Azul players wore blue noses as they walked onto the field for a Mexico soccer league match, to bring awareness and support autism month in April. Brazil's Flamengo defeated Bolivia's San Jose 6-1 in Rio de Janeiro. Julian Quinonez of Colombia's Deportes Tolima kneeled down on the field after Brazil's Atletico Paranaense scored their winning point at a Copa Libertadores soccer match in Curitiba, Brazil. A runner wearing a dinosaur costume took part in a marathon in Santiago, Chile.In Uruguay's capital, people held up image the disappeared from the country's military dictatorship. And a ferry boat that collided with a bridge pillar caused part of a bridge to collapse in the Moju River in the Brazilian state of Para.Supporters of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange protested his arrest in Quito, after Ecuador's President Lenin Moreno allowed British authorities to forcibly remove Assange from Ecuador's small embassy in London.___Gallery edited by photo editor Leslie Mazoch in Mexico City. On Twitter @LeslieMazoch
They are sports that bring in little in the way of money or notoriety or attention compared with the behemoths, football and basketball.In college athletics, volleyball, water polo, sailing, tennis and soccer are relatively small-time affairs that don’t fill stadiums or drive billion-dollar media contracts, and that is why they are at the center of what was described as the broadest college admissions fraud the Justice Department has uncovered.Just like the high-profile sports like football and basketball, coaches in the so-called Olympic sports are generally allowed to reserve several slots each year for students who might not otherwise gain admission. These slots are often in addition to those reserved for the truly elite athletes who receive athletic scholarships or their equivalent at the most selective universities.The Justice Department investigation revealed how this alternative admission path can be exploited and corrupted, especially at the dozen elite universities that were a target.Unlike in football and basketball, there is little in the way of formal rankings or general knowledge about who might be good at what are seen as minor sports, so admissions officials usually have to take coaches at their word when they tell them that an applicant is worthy of a spot on a volleyball or soccer or sailing team, leaving them open to exploitation.That is more difficult to do in big sports. “In basketball and football, it’s out there in the open, compared to the less financially driven sports,” said Corey Evans, a basketball recruiting analyst at Rivals, the recruiting website.[Several college coaches were named in the federal indictment Tuesday. Read more about each of them.]In short order Tuesday, the sailing coach at Stanford was fired. The U.C.L.A. men’s soccer coach was placed on leave, as was the Wake Forest women’s volleyball coach, and the men’s tennis coach at the University of Texas. J.B. Bird, a university spokesman, said Texas was “cooperating fully with the investigation. Integrity in admissions is vital to the academic and ethical standards of our university.” The university stated it believed Coach Michael Center’s actions did not involve “any other university employees or officers.”The water polo coach at the University of Southern California, Jovan Vavic, who has won 16 national championships, was fired after he was arrested at his hotel room early Tuesday morning in Hawaii, where he had traveled with the top-ranked women’s team for a match.The practice of reserving spots for athletes in minor sports has grown in recent years, people involved with college sports say, as more colleges have committed to pursuing excellence in every activity, from the chemistry lab to the tennis courts. Also, as the population continues to grow, slots at the most selective colleges are more competitive than ever.Stanford University said that last year, 47,450 students applied for admission, and the university accepted just 2,040. The acceptance rate of 4.29 percent was the lowest in Stanford’s history. No wonder, according to the complaint, the prominent Massachusetts real estate developer John B. Wilson paid hundreds of thousands of dollars in 2018 to secure a spot for his daughter at Stanford.Federal prosecutors did not charge students or universities with wrongdoing.At the heart of the scheme was William Singer, who, between 2011 and 2018, collected $25 million from parents to bribe coaches, and encouraged them to go to great lengths to falsely present their children as the sort of top-flight athletes that coaches would want to recruit.According to the indictment, Singer fabricated athletic “profiles” of the students to submit with their applications, which contained teams the students had not played on and fake honors not won. One student sat on a rowing machine to pass herself off as a rower. Singer’s associates also photoshopped the faces of the applicants onto images of athletes found on the internet.Kathy DeBoer, the executive director of the American Volleyball Coaches Association, said “people in the volleyball community know who the elite athletes are, but there isn’t enough of a spectator base at most places.”
DUBLIN — The entire board of Irish soccer's governing body has decided to step down by July in the wake of a furore over an undisclosed 100,000 euro (£86,371) loan, Transport Minister Shane Ross said on Tuesday.The Football Association of Ireland (FAI) acknowledged last week it had broken state funding rules by failing to tell authorities about the short-term loan made by its former chief executive, John Delaney, in 2017.In a filing to Ireland's Companies Registration Office published on Tuesday, the FAI's auditors Deloitte also said the 98-year old association's accounts were not being properly kept, contravening two sections of Irish company law. "It is clearly time for a regime change," Ross said as he announced details of the planned mass resignation. The Association had set out the plans in a letter to the government, he added."Given the ever growing lack of public confidence in the FAI, this move is to be welcomed and is hopefully the first step on the road to rebuilding trust in this important national governing body," Ross told a parliamentary committee.Sport Ireland, the government's sport coordination body, suspended all state funding to the Association last week, saying the body had failed to tell it about the financial troubles the loan was meant to ease. The FAI said it needed the cash to relieve cash-flow issues and avoid breaking its 1.5 million euro overdraft limit. It said it paid back the loan two months later.ANGER AND CONCERNSport Ireland Chairman Kieran Mulvey told the committee that the terms of reference audit firm Mazars was preparing into an "extensive investigation" into FAI would also include board expenses and payments to third parties.The Sunday Times newspaper, which first reported details of the loan, reported on Sunday that Delaney spent almost 40,000 euros on his work credit card in the space of six months shortly before he had to personally bail out the association.Citing credit card statements, it said the charges included duty-free purchases, meals in Delaney's local pub and cash withdrawals of more than 6,000 euros. The FAI and Delaney's solicitor did not respond to questions from Reuters over whether the alleged use of the credit card contravened its rules. Prime Minister Leo Varadkar, who criticised Delaney for refusing to answer questions about the loan at a parliamentary committee last week, said on Tuesday the government shared the concern of taxpayers and anger of fans at how the FAI has been run and more investigations were needed.Delaney, who was moved to a newly-created role of executive vice-president after it was first reported last month that he provided the FAI with the loan, offered on Monday to leave the governing body pending investigation.Two other long-standing members of the 11-person board also resigned on Monday. As a result of Deloitte's filing, the Companies Registration Office is now required to inform Ireland's corporate watchdog of the FAI's failure to keep adequate accounting records. The watchdog has already asked the FAI to explain the 2017 loan.
FIFA President Gianni Infantino held talks in Kuwait on Sunday about the country staging 2022 World Cup matches as he pushes to enlarge the Qatar tournament from 32 to 48 teams.After meeting with the emir of Kuwait and soccer officials, Infantino flew to Doha to see Qatari leaders on Monday about the prospect of overcoming the logistical and political complexities of adding 16 more teams to the hosting, which requires at least one additional Gulf country being used.FIFA maintains it is working jointly with Qatar on the viability of a 48-team tournament, but the concept is mired in complexities stemming from the boycott of Doha by neighbors. A FIFA internal report concluded last month that the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia cannot join the hosting unless they restore economic and travel ties with Qatar that were severed two years ago.FIFA instead turned to Kuwait and Oman, who have remained neutral in the diplomatic dispute, as potential hosts. But Oman's foreign minister last week said his country does not have time to prepare to host World Cup games, leaving Kuwait as the only current viable option to cope with the Nov. 21 through Dec. 18 tournament swelling to 80 games.Infantino met with Kuwait's ruler, Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah, National Assembly Speaker Marzouq Al-Ghanim and the management of the Kuwait Football Association, FIFA said in a statement. The discussions were "about football in the country in general, but also about the FIFA World Cup 2022," the world governing body said.FIFA's feasibility study into expanding the World Cup determined that two stadiums in at least one additional country were required to cope with the demands of extra games. Kuwait City's Jaber Al-Ahmad International Stadium has 60,000 seats but Sabah Al-Salem Stadium only 26,000 and requires upgrades.Ahead of Infantino arriving in Doha, Qatari officials held their first World Cup board meeting of the year on Sunday chaired by the ruling emir, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani."The latest Qatar 2022 developments were reviewed, including infrastructure projects, stadiums and security plans for the tournament," said Qatar's Supreme Committee for Delivery and Legacy.But those plans are in flux amid Infantino's determination to enlarge the tournament with less than four years to go until kickoff. Qatar is still working on a 32-team tournament as it completes eight stadiums over just a 30-mile radius in the tiny nation with just 2.7 million people, most of them foreign workers.Infantino said last week that he now believes there is only a 50% chance that the 2022 World Cup will see a fast-tracking of the jump to 48 teams that is already agreed to happen in 2026 when the United States, Canada and Mexico are joint hosts.After coming under pressure from human rights groups since winning FIFA's hosting rights vote in 2010, Qatar was forced to improve worker rights and improve labor conditions. FIFA has told potential new co-hosts they have to provide human rights guarantees, which have yet to be specified publicly.Qatar has an exemption that allows foreigners to drink alcohol, but Kuwait has a complete ban which could be problematic for FIFA, which has Budweiser as a major sponsor.FIFA has already had to adapt to cope with taking its showpiece tournament to the Middle East for the first time.While Qatar won a vote in 2010 on the basis of staging a June-July World Cup, FIFA shifted the tournament from its usual slot because of the fierce summer heat.
LIVERPOOL, England — Mohamed Salah has been here before. The edge of the opposition box, down Liverpool’s right-hand side, a defender snapping at his heels. A little burst of speed creates a touch, a glimmer of space. The ball is at his left foot. He touches it just a few inches in front of him.Mohamed Salah has scored this goal before. He seemed to score this goal almost continually last season: opening his body out, wrapping his foot round the ball, generating enough whip to carry it high, across the goalkeeper, arcing into the far corner. It is the goal that won him last year’s Puskas Award. It is the goal that at one point seemed to become his signature.The mechanics of it are still there. Now, he sets the ball just the same as he used to. He shapes his body just the same as he used to. He is, it is safe to assume, aiming for the same corner as he used to. This time, though, it is not quite enough. The ball curls, but it fades too soon. It picks up height, but too little. Jordan Pickford, Everton’s goalkeeper, barely moves. The ball drifts, welcome, into his arms.Salah missed more glaring opportunities than that as Liverpool, just as it had last week, visited a team desperate to see it fail and left with a goalless draw. The cost was a little higher this time around: A single point against Manchester United last week took Liverpool to the top of the Premier League table. The same result against Everton on a rain-specked Sunday left it a point behind Manchester City.Salah was not the only player who might have diverted the course of the game — Joel Matip and Fabinho, in particular, spurned their chances to become folk heroes — but he did it most often. Twice, once in each half, he raced clear, his feet a blur as he bore down on goal. Twice, his touch was heavy. Twice, his timing was awry. Pickford saved one; the defender Michael Keane stopped the other.But though they were his best chances, it was the first of them, the one that curled straight into Pickford’s hands, that was most symbolic of Salah’s campaign so far. Everything is almost exactly the same as it used to be, as it was in his unstoppable season last year, only it isn’t, not quite.It was, of course, unavoidable that Salah would be accused of suffering from what is popularly known as second-season syndrome. That is the unfortunate thing about setting quite so high a bar last season: even the slightest drop-off, or even the slightest perception of a drop-off, can be interpreted as an anticlimax.Anything other than a repeat of the improbable feats of his first season at Liverpool — 32 goals in 36 Premier League games, 44 in 52 in all competitions — would certainly be enough to invite criticism that his run of form had been an illusion.So it has proved. Salah has scored 17 goals in the Premier League in his 28 games this season. Good, of course; respectable, obviously, more than a goal in every two games; still a smart inclusion in the fantasy team, clearly. Is it a total bettered only by Sergio Agüero, putting Salah ahead of Harry Kane and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and the rest of the billions of dollars of strikers in the Premier League? O.K. But still, not quite the same. Not really.Salah, indeed, is a strange kind of busted flush. He was, according to his manager, Jürgen Klopp, “unplayable” as recently as four days ago, when he twisted and curdled the blood of Adam Masina, Watford’s left back, during a 5-0 win at Anfield. He has been criticized for disappearing in high-pressure games — not always wrongly — but in the one truly do-or-die game of Liverpool’s season so far, in the Champions League against Napoli, Salah scored the only goal. He is still his club’s leading scorer. Even at Goodison Park, even in the stalemate, it was abundantly clear that he was Liverpool’s greatest threat.That is not to say, though, that the criticism is entirely misplaced. Just as Salah is not a write-off because he has not managed to maintain his furious goal-scoring rate, it is hard to deny that he is not quite the force of nature he was for much of last year.Perhaps, in the early months of the season, there were mitigating circumstances: the lingering effects of that shoulder injury sustained in the Champions League final, the one that threatened his involvement in the World Cup and that hampered his performances in Russia.And perhaps, even as the injury has healed, its effects are still felt. Klopp dismisses any notions that Salah has lost confidence, but the heavy touches when he was once so deft, the slight stumbles when he was once so sure: they are the surefire signs.Salah’s newfound profile means he has to deal with the closer attentions of opposing defenders. He has had to do so, at times, in the absence of much creative assistance from Liverpool’s midfield, and for much of the year in a new position, too. He has not been able to pick up the burden when he is not quite as fluid, not quite as free as he used to be.There is no shame in that, of course. The number of goals he has scored despite all of that warrants respect, rather than scorn. The worry — from Klopp’s perspective, and from Liverpool’s — is that, in a title race that will probably be decided by the very finest of margins, what they need more than ever is the Salah of last year, the one who scored that same goal again and again, the one whose every touch seemed to be golden. If Liverpool is to overhaul Manchester City, if it is to end its 29-year wait for an English championship, it needs the player it had last season, rather than the one who is almost the same, but somehow, infinitesimally, not quite.
MANCHESTER, England — Jürgen Klopp was walking along the edge of the Old Trafford field, on his way from the locker room to speak to the assembled news media, when Liverpool’s fans spotted him.They had been corralled inside the stadium for 20 minutes or so after the final whistle, until the Manchester police had determined it was safe for them to be accompanied out. They had entertained themselves by singing, for a while, but had gradually fallen quiet, as if trying to work out their emotional reaction to the 0-0 draw they had just seen.And then Klopp appeared. As they lingered in the aisles, ringed by stewards, they turned to salute him. “Liverpool, top of the league,” they sang. Klopp had spent most of the afternoon with a deep-set scowl on his face, barking instructions at his players, bristling and bubbling with dissatisfaction.As he got closer, though, as he worked out what they were singing, he put one hand on his heart — on the Liverpool crest on his top — and, with the other, offered a little wave. He beamed that broad, warm smile, the one that makes him look a little like a happy shark. It lingered even as he turned away, before he got serious again.Liverpool’s day was a little like that, somewhere between a scowl and a smile.A draw with Manchester United meant a return to the top of the Premier League table, ahead of Manchester City by a single point, with 11 games left to play.It meant Klopp’s players have now faced the most daunting fixture of their run-in: against England’s most in-form team — United remains unbeaten domestically since Ole Gunnar Solskjaer replaced José Mourinho — and a club fizzing with motivation to see Liverpool fail. That point represented an obstacle cleared.There was no great sense of relief, though, no untamed glee among the traveling fans. The point also represented an opportunity lost, against a United team frayed by injury. Anthony Martial sat in the stands, not fit enough to be involved; Nemanja Matic was ruled out after picking up an injury in training.By halftime, Solskjaer had been forced to use all three of his substitutes, too, with Ander Herrera, Juan Mata and Jesse Lingard — a substitute himself — all limping off. Marcus Rashford, clearly in discomfort for much of the game, was forced to swallow a couple of painkillers and carry on.United’s midfield, for more than an hour, consisted of Scott McTominay and Andreas Pereira, callow youth forced to bear the responsibilities of grizzled experience. Liverpool would rarely have faced a United team with such threadbare resources, with quite so many square pegs in round holes. It would rarely have found fate smiling so kindly at Old Trafford. That point stood as proof, too, of Liverpool’s failure to profit from United’s troubles.But then Liverpool’s season has been a little like that: elusive, fuzzy, difficult to discern and define, as noteworthy for what it is missing as what is present.The raw numbers, of course, are enormously impressive: just one defeat all year — at Manchester City, right at the start of January, still likely the most significant result of the campaign — and more points than it has ever had at this stage of the Premier League. More points, indeed, than all but a handful of teams have had at this stage of the season.Liverpool has the best defense in the country, comfortably ahead of Manchester City’s in goals surrendered; Virgil van Dijk would be a contender for the various player of the year awards, a rarity for a defender. Only City has scored more goals.The best gauge of how impressive Liverpool has been, though, is that with two-thirds of the season gone, it remains ahead of a City team so good that Pep Guardiola, its coach, has spent a good part of the last week batting off questions about whether it can win all four trophies — the mythical, unprecedented quadruple — this season. (It picked up the first on Sunday, beating Chelsea on penalties in the E.F.L. Cup final.) City is a team that picked up 100 points in winning the title last year, and has, at various points, been deemed to be even better this time around. All of that, and Liverpool is still on top.And yet Liverpool does not look like a team capable of all of that: not just here, against a weakened Manchester United, but for considerable swaths of the season, too. City has a swagger and a panache and an irresistibility; Liverpool, on all but a few occasions, has seemed to toil for every goal and every point and every win.
This photo gallery highlights some of the top news images made by Associated Press photographers in Latin America and the Caribbean that were published in the past week.A former president of Peru, Alan Garcia, killed himself as he was about to be arrested in a corruption case tied to the Brazilian construction company Odebrecht, while ex-Peruvian President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski was hospitalized as he faces a similar investigation.Roman Catholics participated in Holy Week observances across Latin America at the approach of Easter Sunday.On the Colombia-Venezuela border, Venezuelans crossed illegally into the neighboring nation near the Simon Bolivar International Bridge, where Venezuela's government is allowing only students, seniors and the sick to cross. People in Venezuela's capital saw the first delivery of humanitarian aid brought in by the International Red Cross.Young students from poor communities received instruction in the intricacies of classical ballet in Chorrillos, a poor neighborhood of Peru's capital.Police and demonstrators clashed near Ecuador's presidential palace during a protest against the policies of President Lenin Moreno's government. Panamanians prepared to hold general elections May 5.In Cuba, international artists showcased new works at the Havana Biennial, which is meant to foster art appreciation among the public.Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro stood at attention in the rain during a ceremony in Rio de Janeiro marking Army Day. In Sao Paulo, teams competed in the Red Bull Soapbox Race.In soccer, Victor Santos of Brazil's Flamengo celebrated after scoring in a Copa Libertadores match, while coach Miguel Faria of Mexico's Cruz Azul gestured his anguish at his team failing to score in a Mexican soccer league game.___Gallery edited by photographer Dieu Nalio Chery in Port-au-Prince, Haiti.Follow him on Twitter at @CheryHaiti
NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE, England — Bill Corcoran is in his usual spot, in the shadow of St. James’ Park, opposite Shearer’s bar, rattling his bucket, when a pack of a dozen Manchester United fans marches past.They are wearing black jackets, hoods raised to stave off the cold. Just as they reach Corcoran, they launch into a deeply unflattering, mildly profane chant about the man after whom the bar is named: Alan Shearer, favorite son of both Newcastle the city and Newcastle the team. A few home fans jeer in response. The heckling just makes the interlopers sing louder.Toward the tail of the group, one man spots Corcoran, and veers in his direction. He pulls his wallet from his pocket, and leafs through a fistful of green, orange and purple notes.“Who are you collecting for, mate?” he asks. His accent is broad Mancunian. “Newcastle fans’ food bank,” Corcoran replies, his vowels unmistakably North Eastern.The man pauses. He shuffles the bills, and chooses a purple £20. He slips it inside the bucket, and hurries after his group. He picks up the refrain effortlessly. He is back to taunting Shearer, and Newcastle, before Corcoran has even had a chance to thank him.Over the next hour or so, dozens of fans stop at the same spot. Some donate money. Some come bearing bags of groceries, filled to the brim with canned fruit and breakfast cereals and dried pasta, to be dropped off at the makeshift booth behind Corcoran.Today is not a special occasion: the same thing happens every time Newcastle plays at home. So acute is the hunger in Newcastle now, so intense is the demand, that Corcoran, and a handful of other volunteers, do this every two weeks.Everything they raise — and they have raised a lot, somewhere in the region of £200,000 ($258,000), they believe — is sent to the West End Food Bank, in one of Newcastle’s most deprived areas. It is the largest institution of its kind in Britain. “We can’t have people in this city starving,” Corcoran said. “It is a badge of shame.”That dire state of affairs is not, though, unique to Newcastle. The demand for food banks in Britain has soared in recent years: the Trussell Trust, which runs more than 400 such programs, said it distributed some 1.3 million food parcels from its centers in the fiscal year ending in March, an increase of 13 percent.The spike, the charity’s chief executive, Emma Revie, said last year, can be attributed to the fact that too many people do not have “enough money coming in to cover the rising cost of absolute essentials like food and housing.”Earlier this month, the government’s Environmental Audit Committee warned lawmakers that more than two million people in Britain could be considered “food insecure,” meaning they struggle to eat regularly and healthily. Philip Alston, the United Nations’ special rapporteur for extreme poverty and human rights, described the problem as a “social calamity” on a fact-finding mission to Britain last year.And so, across the country, the same thing has happened: soccer, and in particular its fans, has stepped into the breach. Newcastle’s is not the only food drive; Corcoran and his colleagues said they took their inspiration from a similar initiative that started in Liverpool in 2015. Celtic fans have been running one in Glasgow for years. In recent months, fans in Manchester, Sunderland and London — among others — have done the same.In front of stadiums filled with multimillionaire superstars,  fans have taken it upon themselves to help those who need it most.“I like to feel I am doing my bit to give something back,” said Sandra Farn, as she dropped off a donation at the booth behind Corcoran. She and her son, Alex, drive the two hours from Nottingham for every Newcastle home match. They stop at a supermarket first, and load up. That, now, is part of the ritual of going to a game.Jonathan Yaseen comes to Newcastle games with his 15-year-old son, Zain, but also, usually, only after stopping at a local store for rice, cookies and canned fish. “He has asked me before why we are having to do this,” Yaseen said. “It is hard to explain.” 
BERLIN — Bayern Munich's 5-0 thrashing of Borussia Dortmund in their top-of-the-table clash left the Bavarians one point clear with six games left and a huge psychological advantage.Here are five talking points from the Bundesliga weekend: VAR BITES BACK AT SCHALKESchalke 04 were given a video assistant referee (VAR) let-off which surprised even themselves but were not so lucky the second time as a stoppage-time penalty handed them a 2-1 home defeat by Eintracht Frankfurt.Eintracht forward Ante Rebic went down in the area in the first half and, although most observers felt it was a clear penalty, the referee decided otherwise after consulting the pitchside screen."VAR doesn't give Frankfurt a penalty. We're not sure why not," conceded Schalke's Twitter feed.But there was a different outcome in stoppage time when Daniel Caligiuri was judged to have handled in the box and Luca Jovic converted to give Eintracht a 2-1 win."Caligiuri was pushed, then the ball bounced off his shoulder and against his hand," said Schalke coach Huub Stevens.The defeat left Schalke in 14th, five points clear of VfB Stuttgart who are in the relegation playoff spot. Eintracht, unbeaten since the winter break, are fourth and on course to qualify for the Champions League next season.JOVIC STEPS UP IN HALLER'S ABSENCEEintracht's regular penalty taker Sebastien Haller was missing through injury but, despite never having taken a penalty in the Bundesliga before, 21-year-old Jovic had no hesitation in stepping up to accept the responsibilityThe Serb coolly converted for his 17th league goal of the season and made a small slice of history in the process -- officially timed as being scored in the 99th minute, it was the latest-ever penalty in Bundesliga history.BAYERN COACH SINGLES OUT DORTMUND WEAKNESSSoccer coaches rarely single out individual weakness in the opposition but Bayern Munich's Nico Kovac broke with convention and pointed the finger at Borussia Dortmund's Dan-Axel Zagadou after their 5-0 win.Zagadou set up the second goal when his back pass fell to Roberto Lewandowski -- something Kovac said he saw coming.
BANGKOK — Two Australian cave divers who were instrumental in the rescue last year of 12 Thai boys and their soccer coach from a flooded cave received on Friday a royal honor from King Maha Vajiralongkorn in a ceremony in Bangkok.The “Wild Boars” soccer team, aged between 11 and 16, and their 25-year-old coach became trapped on June 23 while exploring the cave complex in the northern province of Chiang Rai when a rainy season downpour flooded the tunnels.A 17-day effort to rescue them gripped the world with experts from various countries volunteering to help.Richard Harris and Craig Challen were members of the main rescue team, made up of 13 foreign divers and five Thai navy divers, that brought the boys and their coach out to safety.They received the Most Admirable Order of the Direkgunabhorn at Bangkok's Government House before meeting Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha in their first trip back to Thailand since the rescue.They will travel to Chiang Rai and return to the Tham Luang cave on Monday to meet the boys and their coach."That's really exciting for us to go and see them and make sure they're well and see how they're doing after the rescue," Harris said.Harris, a physician specializing in anesthesia, was responsible for sedating the boys before they were brought out one-by-one on a rescue stretcher through flooded tunnels.The pair were in January named Australians of the Year, one of Australia's highest honors.King Vajiralongkorn has conferred various honors on 187 people in connection with the rescue, 113 of them foreigners including Tesla Inc Chief Executive Elon Musk, who were involved in the effort, according to the Royal Gazette in March.A former Thai navy diver died during the rescue.  (Reporting by Panu Wongcha-um and Panarat Thepgumpanat; Editing by Robert Birsel)
SAO PAULO — Brazilian soccer great Pele has successfully undergone surgery for the removal of a kidney stone in a Sao Paulo hospital.The Albert Einstein Hospital said on its website Saturday that Pele's surgery went well, but did not provide additional details.The 78-year-old was hospitalized in Brazil on April 2 after spending five days in a Paris hospital for a urinary infection.He had been in France to attend an event with forward Kylian Mbappe.Pele has been in the hospital frequently over the last few years for kidney and prostate problems.
The soccer star, whose new book is “Wolfpack,” began the sport because of a how-to guide from the library. “I scored 27 goals in my first three games. I guess I do owe it all to books.”What was the last truly great book you read?“Love Warrior,” by Glennon Doyle. It helped me get sober and love myself again. I’ve never read writing so honest and raw. I loved that book so much I married the author.What’s your favorite thing to read? And what do you avoid reading?Favorite thing to read: nonfiction. Avoid reading: anything with dragons or wizards.What books are on your nightstand?An advance copy of “Mary Magdalene Revealed: The First Apostle, Her Feminist Gospel & the Christianity We Haven’t Tried Yet,” by Meggan Watterson. It’s about the Gospel left out of the Bible — and buried in the Egyptian desert after a fourth-century command that all copies of it be destroyed — significant because it is written from a woman’s point of view, emphasizes that all humans are divine and insists that there is no need for middlemen between people and God. Since I’m still trying to detox from the homophobia, misogyny and mind control I internalized from growing up in the Catholic Church, I’m excited to dive into this one.Are there books that inspire you as an athlete? Any sportswriters you especially respect?When I read Andre Agassi’s “Open,” it was the first time I witnessed an athlete admitting to humanity and mistakes. After I retired, I was struggling hard with addiction. I wanted to write about it honestly but I was afraid that it might ruin my legacy as a sports hero or stain the reputation of the National Team. The first time I met my wife, I told her about my conflict and she said: I don’t know anything about the sports world, but here in the real world, we like real people. If you’re honest and you learn from your struggle — the world will love you more, not less. She and Agassi inspired me to write honestly in “Forward.” I’m glad I did, because it freed me to begin to live one life instead of two. Shamelessness freed me.What’s the most interesting thing you’ve learned from a book lately?“Good and Mad: The Revolutionary Power of Women’s Anger,” by Rebecca Traister, brought context to feelings I’ve had for a long time. During my soccer career, the difference between how the men’s team and women’s team were treated and paid was egregious. Even in years that the women brought in more revenue and bigger championships, the men were paid dramatically more. Because we are women, we were conditioned to just be grateful for the crumbs we were handed instead of demand what we deserved. When I read “Good and Mad,” it made me fully understand that neither my experience nor my anger was unique. I was just taking my place in a long legacy of women fed up with unequal treatment. It made me consider that my anger about injustice is nothing to be ashamed of, it’s something to be harnessed to make change — just as the brave women of the National Team are doing right now with their gender discrimination lawsuit.What’s the last book that made you laugh?“I’m Judging You: The Do-Better Manual,” by Luvvie Ajayi. I’ve known Luvvie for a few years now and it’s important that we understand how unbelievably funny she is. She has the ability to write words that many of us think, but never say.The last book that made you furious?“Educated,” by Tara Westover. What a beautifully written book. Westover is a genius. Maybe we all are until we get it indoctrinated out of us like Westover did. “Educated” made me think about how dangerous it is to tell a child who she is and what the world is instead of giving her space to discover both on her own.
Cleared by a disciplinary panel of performing a Nazi salute, a Premier League soccer player was still criticized for his lack of knowledge about fascism and Adolf Hitler.Crystal Palace goalkeeper Wayne Hennessey was described by a Football Association commission as having displayed "a very considerable — one might even say lamentable — degree of ignorance about anything to do with" the Nazi regime.The 32-year-old Hennessey, who is from Wales, had denied giving a Nazi salute because, the commission said, "he said he did not even know what one was.""Improbable as that may seem to those of us of an older generation, we do not reject that assertion as untrue," it said. "All we would say (at the risk of sounding patronizing) is that Mr. Hennessey would be well advised to familiarize himself with events which continue to have great significance to those who live in a free country."A photograph posted on Instagram by Hennessey's teammate at Palace, German midfielder Max Meyer, showed Hennessey with his right arm raised and his left hand under his nose. The photo was taken during a team dinner following Palace's win over Grimsby in the FA Cup in January.The FA charged Hennessey, saying the gesture brought the game into disrepute and was an aggravated breach of rules because it included a "reference to ethnic origin and/or race and/or religion and/or belief."Hennessey argued in a hearing that he was waving and shouting to the person taking the photo — an Italian waiter — and put his hand over his mouth to make the sound carry. An independent panel came down on the side of Hennessey.The panel said it was not challenged by witnesses in the hearing that "Mr. Hennessey does have rather a loud voice and tends to be impatient."Hennessey also provided screenshots and photographs of him on a soccer field, showing him with his right or left arm "raised at a similar angle (presumably to attract the attention of the defense in front of him)," the panel said."That someone later misinterpreted the gesture," it said, "may illustrate the perils of social media and the need for people to be careful to avoid such a situation. It has certainly also revealed a disappointing ignorance on the part of Mr. Hennessey with important parts of our culture and history."But that does not amount to proof that he has committed what would otherwise be a serious breach of (the rules)."______
BANGKOK — Two Australian doctors were given royal honors in Thailand on Friday for helping rescue a boys soccer team from a flooded cave and said they are looking forward to a reunion with the youngsters they helped save.Richard Harris and Craig Challen were given the award at a ceremony presided over by Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha. Four Australian officials involved with the rescue effort were also honored.Both highly skilled divers, the doctors played key roles in rescuing members of the Wild Boars soccer team and their coach from the cave complex in Chiang Rai province last July.They said before the award ceremony they were looking forward to going to the northern province Monday to see how the boys are faring."That's really exciting for us to go and see them and make sure they're well and see how they're doing after the rescue," Harris said. "Hopefully we will find them in good shape."A mixed team of Thais and expert divers from a number of countries combined in the dramatic search and rescue mission carried out after the team went missing when heavy rain flooded the Tham Luang cave complex.The drama, which lasted 18 days, gripped the attention of the world.Harris and Challen, who in January were jointly named Australians of the Year, said that should it ever happen again, they were ready to reprise their operation." We have a little bit more experience now," Challen said. "We seem to be the world record holders in cave-diving rescues now."They also joked about one of the British rescue team members, Josh Bratchley, who this week had to be rescued himself from a cave in the United States, and said they had left humorous messages on his Facebook page."Well, it's been a matter of some hilarity with us really. I'm glad it wasn't us because that would have been very professionally embarrassing for us, I can say," Challen said. "We are looking forward to speaking to Josh and getting the true story."Their final message was one for all young people: Don't let what happened to the Wild Boars scare you off having fun."Those boys and the coach were extraordinarily unlucky to have been caught out in the cave," Harris said. "I hope that doesn't stop people enjoying adventures and kids really need to do those sorts of things."
MONTERREY, Mexico — The St. Louis Cardinals, Cincinnati Reds and all of Major League Baseball will have one big fan rooting for them when they come together this weekend at Estadio de Béisbol de Monterrey — Mexican President Andres Manuel López Obrador.López Obrador, who took the oath of office last December, is a devoted baseball fan and is trying hard to help the sport succeed in a country where soccer is still king.The Cardinals and Reds meet for games on Saturday and Sunday, and the Houston Astros and Los Angeles Angels will play another two-game series at the same ballpark in early May.But López Obrador wants baseball to be more than just a couple of big league sets every year."It's well known that baseball is my favorite sport, since I was a kid in my town there was nothing more than baseball," said the 65-year-old López Obrador, who has several videos on YouTube where he shows off a good swing. "I can still play, I can still hit above .300, I played center field when I was younger and had a good arm and covered a lot of ground."MLB began holding regular season games in Mexico in 1996 when the San Diego Padres and Mets played three times. The 1999 season opened with a matchup in Monterrey between the Padres and Colorado. Last May, the Padres and Los Angeles Dodgers played a three-game series at the stadium — Walker Buehler and the Dodgers bullpen combined for a no-hitter.All of those series were a success with sellouts in Monterrey.López Obrador put some action behind his passion and recently created Promobeis, a government office run by Édgar González, a former player who spent a couple of seasons as a Padres second baseman and was Mexico's manager at the World Baseball Classic.Among other things, Promobeis has a goal to have between 60 and 80 Mexican players in the majors. This season, only eight local players started the season on big league rosters, but González — brother of former All-Star Adrian González — believes that he can he can have success because there are over 160 Mexicans in the minors."I love the challenge, it's something that has never been done before and can be a success. I think it's easier to have more Mexican baseball players in the big leagues than players in the NFL. Besides, we believe that we can help to take kids away from the bad habits," González told The Associated Press."We believe that having more players in the majors will help us to grow the sport's popularity. Right now we have a little bit over 160 players in the minors, in the majors right now there are 10 because some of them are constantly been called up or sent down. It's a good number and I believe we can grow in the future and have more players signing with MLB clubs like the Puerto Ricans or the Dominicans," González said.To put the program in motion, González and Promobeis have a $17.5 million budget for 2019. The money will be invested in the opening of 10 baseball academies that are going to be administered by the government."It's going to be great if they support baseball like the president wants. You need to start early in the sport to be successful," said former big league slugger Vinny Castilla, considered one of the all-time great Mexican players. "Baseball is our president*s great passion and that's big news because for all of us that love the sport, he is going to support the sport as much as he can."The idea of having more Mexican players in the big leagues as a way to boost the sport's popularity in the country is not new. MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred has spoken about it on several occasions as a big factor for the country to be considered like a candidate for an expansion franchise in the future.Besides López Obrador's ideas, another door to the majors opened for the Mexicans last March. That's when MLB announced an agreement with the Liga Mexicana de Béisbol that allows all players who are under contract to an LMB team to be able to sign with any MLB club as long the player is at least 25 years old or has six or more years of professional baseball experience abroad.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has spent much of his time as Manchester United manager harking back to the club's trophy-laden past under Alex Ferguson.Now it's time to focus on the future — and he knows it.United's 4-0 aggregate loss to Barcelona in the Champions League quarterfinals highlighted just how far England's biggest club remains behind the best in Europe, six years after Ferguson's retirement."I've said all along this isn't going to change overnight," Solskjaer said, "and the next few years are going to be massive for us to get to the level where Barcelona and other teams are at the moment."The so-called "new-manager bounce" provided by Solskjaer's arrival in December as the replacement for Jose Mourinho masked the frailties that still existed in United's team. From 14 wins — and only one loss — in his first 17 matches in charge, when United arguably overperformed, Solskjaer has now presided over five losses in his last seven games.United is out of the Champions League and might not get back into the competition next season after dropping to sixth place in the Premier League.So, the questions are coming thick and fast: Was United hasty in making Solskjaer its permanent manager on the back of his successful three months as interim coach? How much does United need to spend in the offseason to build a squad capable for challenging for the big titles? Will Paul Pogba still be at United next season? Does United need a director of football?"We've got a rebuilding job," Solskjaer said after the 3-0 loss to Barcelona in the second leg on Tuesday.SOLSKJAERWith his permanent smile and positive outlook, the Norwegian coach has been a breath of fresh air at United following the gloomy final months of the Mourinho era. His regular and sentimental references to the glory days under Ferguson — in which he played a major part — endeared him even more to fans.At first, he was a caretaker manager but the clamor to hire him on a permanent basis became so intense that United's American ownership relented and gave him a three-year deal on March 28. His results up to that point possibly merited it, but United could have waited until the end of the season.United is currently on its worst run of results this season and some of Solskjaer's selections are being scrutinized — for example, left back Luke Shaw playing as a left-sided center back in the first leg against Barcelona and center back Victor Lindelof as a right back in the second leg. Many fans wonder why Ashley Young is still being picked.Solskjaer's favored counterattacking approach worked perfectly in United's hot streak, but the team often had little control. Can he change his style of play to adapt to all types of games?OFFSEASON TARGETSThe squad clearly needs a shake-up, especially in defense where the much-criticized Young continues to play as an out-of-position full back. Center backs Chris Smalling and Phil Jones are still there, too, eight years after being members of the United team that lost 2-1 to Basel to get eliminated from the group stage of the Champions League.
Lauren Sara Wiley and Nathan Mark Terrazas were married April 13 at the South Congress Hotel in Austin, Tex. Rabbi Monty Eliasov officiated, with the Rev. Rob Hall, an auxiliary bishop of the Old Catholic Diocese of Uniformed Services, taking part.Mrs. Terrazas, 27, is a speech language pathologist at a private practice in Austin. She is also a Pilates instructor at Solidcore in Austin. She graduated from Northwestern, from which she also received a master’s degree in speech, language and learning.She is the daughter of Audrey B. Wiley and Richard B. Wiley of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. The bride’s father, who is retired, worked in the sales division at BMW in Mount Kisco, N.Y. Her mother, who works in Armonk, N.Y., is an administrator in the winter office of both Tripp Lake Camp, an all-girls sleep-away camp in Poland, Me., and Camp Takajo, an all-boys sleep-away camp in Naples, Me.Mr. Terrazas, 31, is a product specialist at ePayPolicy, a payment processor to the insurance industry in Austin. He graduated from DePaul University. He is the son of Elisa Terrazas and Mark Terrazas of Lansing, Ill. The groom’s mother is a cosmetologist in private practice in Munster, Ind. His father is a chief building engineer for SodexoMagic, an engineering firm in Chicago.The couple met in summer 2012 while they were working at Camp Takajo. She was a tennis counselor and he a soccer counselor. They bonded over their love of Chicago and the groom’s Australian shepherd, Roo.
MONROVIA, Liberia — A spokesman says Liberia's president is working from home after two snakes were found in the building that contains his office.Deputy press secretary Smith Toby tells The Associated Press that former international soccer star and President George Weah was told to stay away until the Foreign Affairs building can be fumigated. He is expected back in the office on Monday.The black snakes were seen this week briefly emerging from a hole in a wall of the building's reception area. Liberia is home to poisonous snakes and officials are not taking chances.The deputy press secretary says the fumigation has begun to take care of "crawling and creeping things."Weah, who was FIFA's 1995 player of the year, assumed the presidency in January 2018.
The best player in baseball is closing in on the richest contract in the history of North American sports. Mike Trout, the center fielder for the Los Angeles Angels, is finalizing a contract extension that will be worth about $430 million and keep him with the team through 2030, according to two people who were briefed on the deal but were not authorized to comment publicly.However the deal is calculated — either an additional $360 million over 10 years or the Angels’ total commitment of about $430 million for the next 12 years — Trout has eclipsed the previous record for guaranteed money: the 13-year, $330 million deal Bryce Harper signed this month with the Philadelphia Phillies.The extension, which was first reported by ESPN, would establish Trout as the highest-paid baseball player on an annual basis, topping the $34.4 million Zack Greinke is earning from the Arizona Diamondbacks on a six-year, $206.5 million contract signed in December 2015.[From 2017: Mike Trout, Baseball’s Best Without the Brand]While it is an enormous amount of money, even this record-breaking contract doesn’t necessarily bring Trout into the highest tier of overall income for professional athletes.While comparing contracts across sports and continents is an inherently difficult undertaking because of varied contractual structures, tax burdens, bonuses and ancillary benefits, it is clear that even with the monster deal Trout would fall well short of becoming the world’s highest paid athlete annually.The soccer superstar Lionel Messi, for example, is expected to earn more than 106 million euros (about $120 million) per year from Barcelona through 2021, an amount that could rise to 120 million euros if certain incentives are met. The boxer Canelo Álvarez will earn at least $73 million annually from a five-year deal with the streaming service DAZN.Trout, 27, also won’t have the highest annual salary in North American team sports. In the N.B.A., Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors is making $37.5 million this season, and the Houston Rockets’ James Harden will earn $42.3 million annually once his four-year, $169.3 million contract extension kicks in.The highest-paid N.F.L. player, Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers, earns a bit less than Trout is expected to: an average of $33.5 million from a four-year, $134 million contract (though only $98.7 million of that is guaranteed). Unlike Major League Baseball, the N.F.L. and N.B.A. have salary caps.Compared with superstars in other sports, Trout has a limited ability to earn money outside the game. Baseball players typically aren’t as well-known nationally or internationally as their counterparts in other major sports, and Trout’s lack of marketability has been lamented by M.L.B. Commissioner Rob Manfred.Trout does have a number of endorsement deals with companies including Rawlings and Nike, and in 2014 he became of the first baseball player since Ken Griffey Jr. to get a Nike signature cleat. But baseball players’ ability to move merchandise pales in comparison to that of a basketball player or a soccer player, and endorsement contracts reflect that.Trout earns an estimated $2.5 million from endorsements annually, according to Forbes. Kevin Durant’s endorsement deal with Nike alone is worth up to $300 million over 10 years, while Harden will earn $200 million over 13 years from Adidas. LeBron James of the N.B.A. and Cristiano Ronaldo, the Portuguese soccer star for Juventus, have lifetime deals with Nike that are rumored to be worth $1 billion each.While a handful of athletes earn more from their contracts annually than Trout, those individuals almost assuredly will not be doing so in 2030, the final year of Trout’s deal. N.B.A. contracts last a maximum of five years, and with a few exceptions, soccer contracts are rarely longer than that, either. Boxers typically earn their money fight to fight, while golf and tennis players simply claim a share of tournament prize money.But in 2030, no matter how Trout’s baseball career progresses, he will earn at least $36 million — a priceless long-term assurance.He has earned the payout by putting together seven astounding seasons to begin his career; the most similar players, production-wise, at his age, according to Baseball Reference, have been the Hall of Famers Frank Robinson, Ken Griffey Jr. and Mickey Mantle. Trout has won two American League Most Valuable Player Awards and been the runner-up four times. His career batting average is .307 and he is the majors’ active leader in on-base plus slugging percentage, at .990.
Here's your look at highlights from the weekly AP photo report, a gallery featuring a mix of front-page photography, the odd image you might have missed and lasting moments our editors think you should see.This week's gallery includes boys playing soccer in the historic Kasbah of Algiers, Algeria; a horse-drawn carriage traveling next to a highway in Frankfurt, Germany; and waves crashing against a line of trees in Minnesota.___This gallery contains photos from the week of April 6-12, 2019.See the latest AP photo galleries: https://apimagesblog.com___Follow AP photographers on Twitter: http://twitter.com/AP/lists/ap-photographersVisit AP Images online: http://www.apimages.com http://www.apimages.com/___This gallery was produced by Patrick Sison in New York.
LONDON — The long-running British TV soap "Coronation Street" is welcoming its first black family in its 59-year history.The soap opera is set to introduce the Baileys, a family with two sons. It will explore themes of racism and homophobia in sport, with a story line featuring one of the sons, a soccer player, coming out as gay.The show has charted the goings-on in the fictional northern England community of Weatherfield since 1960. It has cast individual black characters but not brought in a black family together before.Producer Iain MacLeod said Saturday he didn't really know why it has taken so long, but it "did feel sort of overdue we did this and represented modern Manchester a bit more accurately."
TOKYO — For fans, athletes, and volunteers, next year's Tokyo Olympics could become known as the get-up-early games.Hoping to beat the summer heat in the Japanese capital, organizers said Tuesday they will start the men's 50-kilometer race walk final at 5:30 a.m. The men's and women's marathon finals go at 6 a.m.Marathon swimming will kick off at 7 a.m., and the men's and women's triathlon start at 7:30 a.m.Even women's softball has some games scheduled for 9 a.m. No men's baseball games will start before noon."9 a.m. is early, that's my impression," said Reika Utsugi, the head coach of Japan's women softball team, speaking through an interpreter. "But we will have one year for the preparation. Softball cannot decide the times."Softball and baseball were dropped after the 2008 Olympics, and are appearing because of the sports' popularity in Japan.The 1964 Tokyo Olympics were held in the fall and did not face heat problems. But modern Olympics can no longer be held in that timeframe, needing to avoid Europe's crowded soccer schedule, and year-round scheduling of the big four sports in the United States — football, baseball, basketball and hockey.Koji Murofushi, the sports director of the Tokyo Games and a Japanese Olympic gold medalist, said organizers had consulted about the schedule with the International Olympic Committee, the governing bodies of the sports, and athletes and medical experts. He said athletes can adapt."When we look at the Olympic games as a whole, of course we need to consider the global audience and adjust and control the overall schedule," Murofushi said, speaking through an interpreter. "Athletes, when they know the schedule in advance, can make an adjustment to prepare."As previously announced, the swimming finals will begin at 10:30 a.m. The swim schedule has nothing to do with the heat and will follow the pattern of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. The morning schedule in Asia allows North American television to telecast the finals live in prime time in the evening.American broadcaster NBC in 2011 agreed to pay the IOC $4.38 billion for TV rights through the 2020 Games. It later agreed to an extension through the 2032 Olympics, paying the IOC an added $7.75 billion.Organizers say the first gold medal event will be the women's 10-meter air rifle, which will take place on July 25 — the day after the opening ceremony.Organizers have labeled Aug. 8 — the day before the closing ceremony — as "Super Saturday" with about 30 finals, the most of any single day. Finals will include men's basketball, men's soccer and men's baseball.The most difficult event to schedule might be surfing, which was added to the Tokyo Olympics. Organizers have blocked out eight days for the event, hoping surf's up for at least four of them. It's a four-day event."The competition schedule is subjected to change depending on the wave conditions," organizers said.
(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. 
(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. 
MANCHESTER, England — The first ball floated backward, spinning and arcing toward the net. For a second, it hung in the air, a foot or so above the white goal line. Manchester City, Liverpool, the Etihad Stadium crowd all held their breath.And then John Stones reached it, and sent it as far away from himself, from danger, as he could. Anthony Taylor, the referee, checked his watch for the goal-line technology reading that would determine if the entire ball had crossed the line before Stones reached it. He waited. Everyone waited.He shook his head. The slightest sliver of orange and purple leather had remained above the line — less than an inch. City could breathe again.The second ball — an hour or so later — traveled quicker, caught sweet by Leroy Sané’s left foot. It struck the sole of Trent Alexander-Arnold’s boot and flew past Alisson Becker’s outstretched hand. Its trajectory shifted, just enough. It struck the bottom of the far post, and skittered along the same white line. Another intake of breath. It clipped the foot of the near post. This time, Taylor did not need to look at his wrist.Fine lines, slender margins. Liverpool did not score, Manchester City did. Liverpool did not win, Manchester City did. It does not change everything: Liverpool remains at the top of the Premier League, four points clear of the reigning champion. But when the time comes to look back on this season, this result may have changed enough.That is how it felt when Taylor blew his whistle, confirming that Sané’s goal had been enough to seal a 2-1 victory for Pep Guardiola’s team, enough to end Liverpool’s 19-game unbeaten run, enough to evaporate the faint aura of invincibility that had started to attach itself to Jürgen Klopp’s team.Manchester City’s players sank to their knees in ecstasy. The stands bounced and heaved. Guardiola — just moments removed from berating Martin Atkinson, the fourth official, for some perceived error by Taylor — embraced his coaching staff, and hugged his players.[More from Rory Smith: David Silva, Manchester City’s Key Piece, Is Now More Valuable Than Ever]Later, Guardiola would be asked if his captain, Vincent Kompany, should have been sent off, instead of receiving just a yellow card, for a first-half foul on Mohamed Salah: another fine line, another slender margin. Guardiola did not want to contemplate such a question “on a night like this,” he said.This was the moment, manager and players and fans had decided, on which the whole season would turn, when the slightest differences could have seismic consequences. Guardiola had made clear, in the days beforehand, that this was a game Manchester City could not afford to lose.It would, he believed, be “impossible” to catch up to a team as good as Liverpool — maybe the best in the world, he called Klopp’s side, trying to kill his foe with kindness — if it won and secured a 10-point lead with 17 games to play.The fans clearly felt the same way. As City cantered to the championship last season, the Etihad was a contented, mellow sort of place — quietly confident in its own obvious superiority. There was little tension, no drama. Against Liverpool, under pressure, it was raucous and angry, possessed of the same manic energy that infused Guardiola’s players.By the end, that energy had transformed into jubilation. Trailing Liverpool by four points, as City does now, is hardly ideal; a month ago, most people connected to City would have been hard-pressed to even imagine such a situation. But when the damage could have been so much worse, it felt like a blessing. City can celebrate all that it has gained; it need not worry about the ground it had lost.Four points is a couple of bad afternoons over the course of five long months. Four points is a lapse of focus in the league because of the demands of the Champions League. Four points is an unfortunate injury, or a needless sending-off. It is the bounce of a ball. It is a fine line, a slender margin.It is particularly precarious now, in what the Premier League has become: a two-tier competition in which, every week, six elite teams demonstrate their superiority over what are in theory their peers, but their pawns in practice. The pace that Liverpool, Manchester City and Tottenham Hotspur — in third, just six points off the lead — have set this year has been historic.
In what the Justice Department called its largest ever college admissions prosecution, federal authorities charged 50 people on Tuesday with taking part in a nationwide scheme to game the admissions process at highly competitive schools like Yale and the University of Southern California. [The college admissions scandal has raised a lot of questions. We’ve answered them here.]Those charged include wealthy and powerful parents accused of paying millions of dollars in bribes, exam administrators and athletic coaches accused of manufacturing students’ achievements, and private admissions counselors accused of coordinating it all. At the center of the scandal are the Edge College & Career Network, also known as the Key, and a nonprofit organization, the Key Worldwide Foundation, that prosecutors say effectively were a single enterprise. They are accused of helping students cheat on standardized tests, and paying bribes to athletic coaches who could get the students into college using fake athletic credentials. [Read more on the Justice Department’s largest ever college admissions prosecution.][Read more about how the F.B.I. says parents cheated to get their children into elite colleges.]Federal prosecutors accused dozens of parents of paying millions of dollars in bribes to help their children secure spots at prestigious American universities. Athletic coaches from top colleges were also implicated and accused of accepting millions of dollars to help students gain admission.Teachers, test administrators and private instructors are named as co-conspirators in the federal charging documents. 
MANCHESTER, England — Sergi Roberto might have noticed Lionel Messi’s battle scars first: the slightly swollen nose, or the faint trace of a bruise, flowering around his left eye. Or he might have realized that the rest of the Argentine’s features were of far greater concern: Messi’s brow was furrowed. His face was set into a scowl. He was staring straight at his teammate. Roberto had let him down.His offense was one scuffed pass, a deflating climax to a wonderful, flowing move down Barcelona’s right flank. A better ball, a little more composure, and Messi would have had a glorious chance to double his team’s 1-0 lead — not necessarily enough to settle this Champions League quarterfinal, to doom Manchester United, but a significant tilting of the balance ahead of next week’s second leg in Barcelona at the Camp Nou.It was, in Roberto’s defense, an aberration. Until that point, he had offered poise and drive since coming on as a substitute for Arthur, the Brazilian midfielder; he had improved Barcelona considerably.By that stage, though, Messi was in no mood to consider mitigating circumstances. His frustration had been building for an hour or so — with himself, with his teammates, with what he very clearly felt was an overly physical approach from United’s defenders and an excessively lenient one from Gianluca Rocchi, the Italian referee. Through his war wounds, Messi subjected Roberto to his sternest glare.Whenever Barcelona sweeps into town, it carries with it certain expectations. Barcelona is style and it is beauty. It is treasuring the ball, cherishing possession, every touch perfect and every pass precise. It is attacking intent and artistic sensibilities. Home crowds may not come to enjoy it — they may, in fact, come specifically to disrupt it — but they expect at least to admire it, teeth gritted and breath taken.Much the same, of course, goes for watching Messi. He had not graced Old Trafford for more than a decade; United had not encountered him at all since 2011, when he orchestrated the defeat of Alex Ferguson’s team at Wembley in a second Champions League final.Old Trafford was ready for him on this day, though. When the teams were read out before kickoff, there were deafening, vituperative jeers for both Philippe Coutinho and Luis Suárez: both, in Mancunian eyes, can be considered forever tainted by their association with Liverpool. Messi’s name attracted a little opprobrium, too: not quite the howling chorus reserved for his teammates, but not too far-off. In his case, it felt a little like a compliment, as though stopping him would require not just the 11 individuals on the field, but the 76,000 or so in the stands, too.In some ways, then, Manchester United’s fans would leave the stadium, a couple of hours later, feeling as though they had done their job. Messi did create the game’s only goal — of course he did — with a darting run, a heavy touch, and an improvised cross for Suárez to head home (with the help of a final touch from Luke Shaw), but for long stretches he seemed subdued.He drifted out wide in search of space and success, but found neither. He dropped deep, to try to light some fire in Barcelona’s belly, but could muster only embers. There were moments, of course — such is the quality of player Messi has around him that there will always be moments — but they were fleeting: the goal itself, the product of two minutes of possession, with every visiting player touching the ball; chances in the first half for Coutinho and in the second, after another spell of endless possession, of what seemed a thousand passes, for Suárez.By the time Roberto had made his poor choice on the edge of Manchester United’s box, Messi was feeling frayed. He had not lived up to his own expectations, and neither had his team, though it is hard to separate which one of those is cause and which is consequence. Either way, Roberto’s errant delivery was the final straw. Messi glowered and glared.And yet, while this victory felt like it came despite — rather than because of — Barcelona’s performance, it was, nevertheless, a victory, and in some lights rather an impressive one.Barcelona did not play at all well for long stretches, and yet emerged with a lead, an away goal, and a sense that United had been kept at arm’s length with comparative ease. The home team, in fact, did not have a single shot on target; there were flurries of pressure, brief spells when Barcelona seemed to be teetering, only to be carried to safety by the nous and composure of Gerard Piqué, Clément Lenglet and Sergio Busquets.It was not what we expect of Barcelona — and judging from Messi’s reaction, it is not necessarily what Barcelona expects of itself — but it showcased many of the traits that the team that goes on to win this competition tends to possess: maturity, cunning, patience, control, and, most decisive of all, an ability to click, even if only briefly, and find a gear that an opponent cannot match.It is not a comparison that would be especially welcome in Catalonia, but in that sense it was a display straight out of the recent playbook of Barcelona’s archrival, Real Madrid: a sort of base level of organization, laced with enough individual talent to make a difference; a superiority that is not immediately visible, but that makes itself plain by the end.Perhaps that is no bad thing. For the last 10 years, Barcelona has always been the most stylish, the most gifted, the most compelling team in the Champions League. It is the most immediately recognizable, the one that inspires the most fear, the one that comes with the greatest expectations.
Good morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Although the California connections run deep throughout the sprawling college admissions scandal, the complex federal case is now playing out in Boston. My colleague, Kate Taylor, has been covering the court proceedings. Here, she reports on the latest: In a coup for prosecutors and possible bad news for other defendants in the sweeping college admissions fraud investigation, one of the parents charged in the case, Davina Isackson of Hillsborough, Calif., has agreed to plead guilty and to cooperate with the government, according to a person with knowledge of the case.Two other parents have said so far that they intend to plead guilty, and more will probably follow in the coming days. But Ms. Isackson’s agreement to cooperate is significant. Ms. Isackson and her husband, Bruce, a real estate developer, were accused of conspiring with William Singer, the college consultant at the center of the case, to bribe athletics officials in order to secure their daughters’ admission to U.C.L.A. and U.S.C. as athletic recruits.Prosecutors also accused them of paying Mr. Singer so that a proctor could correct their younger daughter’s answers on her ACT exam. The prosecutors have said that the Isacksons paid Mr. Singer a total of $600,000.[Catch up on all of The Times’s coverage here.]Mr. Singer has pleaded guilty to racketeering and other charges.The agreement to cooperate means that Ms. Isackson will share what she knows about the roles that officials at U.C.L.A. and U.S.C. played in the scheme and, if their cases go to trial, could testify against them. It also puts pressure on other parents charged in the recruitment scheme; if Ms. Isackson testifies that she believes her actions were wrong, it makes it harder for others to say that they thought that they were simply making innocent donations.One unusual aspect of the Isacksons’ case is that, according to the charging documents, their older daughter, Lauren, who was admitted to U.C.L.A. as a soccer recruit despite not being a top player, was required to participate on the team as a student-athlete for a year. She is listed on the 2017 roster as a midfielder. Most students involved in the case did not actually play on the teams they had been recruited for.Prosecutors say that, after Lauren Isackson was provisionally admitted to U.C.L.A., Mr. Singer directed $100,000 to a sports marketing company controlled by Jorge Salcedo, the former head men’s soccer coach at U.C.L.A. The government has charged Mr. Salcedo with conspiracy to commit racketeering, and he has pleaded not guilty.Davina Isackson could shed light on whether the coaches of the women’s soccer team were also in on the scheme. Amanda Cromwell, the head coach of women’s soccer at U.C.L.A. since 2013, did not respond to messages.Both Davina and Bruce Isackson will plead guilty to conspiracy to commit mail fraud and honest services mail fraud, according to the person with knowledge of the case. Mr. Isackson will also plead guilty to money laundering conspiracy and conspiracy to defraud the United States.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)
FRIDAY PUZZLE — I can’t help myself; I have one more column to write before I actually leave for the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament. After this, I’m really off, I swear.Brendan Emmett Quigley is back with an incredibly crunchy puzzle that may seem difficult to some. Mr. Quigley is known, in traditional venues and on his own website, for his unusual and amazingly fresh fill (he is known for debuting the cryptic phrase WHY YOU LITTLE nearly 20 years ago, clued as “Angry parent’s yell”). This puzzle is no different. We’ve got entries for everyone in this one, including a newly designated ailment called WIIITIS, which may have thrown a lot of solvers off with the three consecutive I’s. Before you say anything, it is a real thing that has even been written up in an actual medical journal. As a fan of the movie “Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse,” which plays with the MULTIVERSE theory by having several versions of the web-slinger converge from different dimensions, I also enjoyed the debut at 26A. — I also liked the throwback to the 1960s Italian film director CARLO PONTI.There’s a lot more to enjoy and learn about in Mr. Quigley’s puzzle, but I’m going to let you dig for treasure. It’s more fun that way. Then come back here and let’s go over a selection of the trickier clues. 20A: Well, sure. If someone came into my house and messed up the flooring, I would most likely shout, “MISLAYER!” all while pointing a “J’accuse!” finger at him.31A: A tough one for those who don’t speak Latin or didn’t go to law school, but it is Friday, so it’s time once again to familiarize ourselves with a new clue. I say “new clue” because the word ESSE has been in The New York Times Crossword 847 times, including this puzzle. So it’s not coming out of nowhere, but the clue seems new if you look at XWordInfo.com. As the clue says, “Auctor ESSE” means to “authorize, in legalese.”34A: A question for those who are in construction: Isn’t an H-BAR really an I-bar turned sideways? You can be honest with me. I won’t tell anyone.42A: Most people would recognize the Easter Island statues, but did you know they are really called MOAI?47A: Congratulations to the Italian soccer team JUVENTUS for making its New York Times Crossword debut.4D: We haven’t seen the word SKALDS in a while. They were ancient Norse bards or poets who recited poems of valor about their heroes. Sounds like a good gig.40D: I thought CARDI B would be a debut, but she’s been in the Crossword once before, in October 2018. Congratulations on that Grammy, Ms. B.Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. Your thoughts?
BOSTON — At 5 on a windy winter morning, in a cold, harshly lit warehouse in Boston’s seaport district, Baracat Paiva stared down at the 200-pound bigeye tuna before him and reached for his knives. Mr. Paiva, as tall and imposing as the dead fish before him, dipped his cloth-gloved hand in warm water, to keep his fingers from numbing. He deftly sharpened an eight-inch knife against a water stone before plunging it into the silver-scaled fish and sawing off the collar, using another, bigger knife to lop off the bone. A few bits of tuna sprayed off his knife and stuck to his hooded sweatshirt and flat-brimmed baseball cap, but he didn’t seem to notice.Then, in a single motion, he slid the knife down the length of the fish on one side, then made another slice on the other. After a few more strokes, he carefully peeled away the rib cage and splayed open the fish, which split into four neat sections. He picked up one of the fillets, brimming with burgundy-hued flesh, and bounced it around in his arms like a baby.“Beautiful,” he said.Mr. Paiva, the highest-volume fish cutter at the popular Boston wholesaler Wulf’s Fish, has become something of a celebrity at a job that normally doesn’t attract much attention. The videos of his cutting skills that he regularly posts on Instagram have drawn hundreds of thousands of views, and comments from admirers around the world who are mesmerized by his swift, graceful motions and the sheer size of the fish he breaks down. Mr. Paiva’s bravura personality is big, too. He often adds urgent background music, or shouts out his slogan: “Boom!” Occasionally, he’ll lick or kiss the fish, or cut out a small piece and eat it — theatrics that have won him comparisons to Salt Bae, the Turkish chef (real name: Nusret Gokce) famed online for playfully salting steaks. Some fans call Mr. Paiva “Fillet Bae.”Many of those followers might be surprised to know that little over a decade ago, Mr. Paiva (pronounced PIE-ay-vah) had never even touched a knife. He was a professional soccer player in Brazil.Mr. Paiva, 37, grew up surrounded by seafood; his hometown, Ilhéus, is on Brazil’s eastern coastline. But he was most interested in playing soccer. “Eighty percent of Brazilians are raised with a ball in their hands,” he said.At age 17, in 1998, Mr. Paiva was spotted by a talent scout and invited to become a goalie for Colo Colo de Futebol e Regatas, his town’s professional soccer club. He was the youngest player on the team.“I was living the dream,” he recalled­. Many people his age wanted to play soccer professionally, and the Brazilian teams are known the world over.But a few years later, at the prime of his career, he cracked his ribs trying to catch a ball, and a doctor told him he couldn’t play soccer anymore. “I was devastated,” Mr. Paiva said.In 2004 his father sent him to Norwich, Conn., to live with family friends and get his mind off soccer. Mr. Paiva found a job as a dishwasher at Jasper White’s Summer Shack, a seafood restaurant in the nearby Mohegan Sun casino.He worked his way up to shucking oysters. Then one day, his boss threw 100 pounds of bluefish onto the counter and showed him how to break them down into fillets.Fish cutting “was really unfamiliar to me,” Mr. Paiva said. “In Brazil, we eat everything whole, with the bones. But this was fun.” And he loved eating seafood.
NEW YORK — The future of NBA basketball could look like European soccer.Tournaments that take place during the season along with league games intrigue Commissioner Adam Silver as a way to change the format of the NBA's 82-game season.If it even keeps an 82-game season.Silver mentioned everything from shorter games to a shorter season Friday as ways the NBA could make its future product better for players and fans."The format we have in place now — I'm a traditionalist on one hand, but on the other hand it's 50 years old or so, presenting an 82-game season, and there's nothing magical about it," Silver said."I think it's on the league office to always be challenging the way we do things, to be paying attention to changing viewer habits, a changing marketplace, a new world of the way media is presented, often on smaller devices, less on screens, people having shorter attention spans, and saying, 'This is an incredible game, it's never been more exciting, the athleticism has never been greater, fantastic players coming from all around the world, but what's the best way to put the season together?'"Silver has focused on player health as commissioner, opening the regular season earlier to reduce the frequency of back-to-back games, and lengthening the All-Star break.But players are still sitting out games throughout the season — either by their choice or because their teams are requiring it — often for reasons being listed as load management."I think a fair point from fans could be if ultimately the science suggests that 82 games is too many games for these players, maybe you shouldn't have an 82-game season," Silver said. "I accept that, and that's something we'll continue to look at."Fewer games could mean less revenue, unless they could be replaced by something that would generate as many or more viewers. Tournaments could be an answer, even if 82 games remains the format.Silver has pointed to European soccer as something that could bring new interest to the NBA by offering teams more opportunities to win something, instead of just having one champion."That's why I'm particularly interested in looking at different kinds of formats — at midseason tournaments, for example, play-in tournaments — because even accepting that players have so many miles on their bodies, there may be better ways to present it," Silver said. "Assuming guys are going to play 82 games, maybe there should be a certain number of games in the regular season and then there should be two tournaments throughout the season."He acknowledged that model would require a change of thinking in American fans, who are used to only caring about the winner of the NBA Finals.Silver also mentioned the possibility of trimming games from 48 minutes to 40, which is the length of college and international games.He cautioned that none of the changes he discussed after the league's Board of Governors meetings were close to being implemented, and would continue to be studied within the league, perhaps for a few years.
FRIDAY PUZZLE — Happy Friday! Deb is visiting one of her children and Howard Barkin’s puzzle is abuzz with interesting entries, so here’s to life, everybody. Everywhere you look in this grid today there’s something that leaps, creeps, bites or stings, plus symbolism, and snacks. What’s not to like?The littlest things grab me sometimes; today the clue for ANT reminded me of my favorite fable. (Am I a self-righteous scold sometimes? Signs point to yes, I love a good MAXIM.) I knew MIA SARA from a fun movie and THE LORAX from a profound book, and figured out MADMEN and ROGUE ONE with little issue. I went a cropper, though, with the “television character at” 54D and the “start to place names” at 54A. I had “sori” and “san,” which didn’t correct until I figured out the extremely witty clue for SEXT at 56D, and then fixing “san” to LAS and “sori” to LORI. 22A: I can’t attest to its current acceptability, nor have I used the term myself, but I have heard various pet pix described as “TOTES adorbs” on occasion. It’s a snappy replacement for the overused “tooootally,” which reliably comes back from the dead when its substitutes, like TOTES, lose conversational currency. I was briefly waylaid by mis-entering “I have to ask” at 12D.24A: I thought I might be looking for some small character in “Moby Dick,” this being a Friday, but we are indeed in a Starbucks, and between this one and the next Starbucks is a competing coffee shop, hiding in McDonald's, a MCCAFE. 57A: Never heard of him, but Wayne ROONEY is a current star and plays in the United States, with Major League Soccer’s D.C. United, although he hails from England. If you follow international soccer you probably know him and MESSI with no problem.11D: I solved the upper right corner here pretty slowly and was unable to deduce anything from the crosses on this unexpected entry. When it finally filled in, I thought it: SON OF A!28D: This is a debut, and something I take for granted — I walk down an avenue from the subway to my home, which is blessed with late-night STREET FOOD galore. And it is possible that New York pales in comparison to Hong Kong, which has options that have been listed by Michelin and sound quite otherworldly (and EXTRA CRISPY). Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?
Manchester United and Barcelona were drawn together in the Champions League quarterfinals on Friday in Nyon, Switzerland.Between them the clubs have eight Champions League titles, Barcelona most recently in 2015 and Manchester United not since 2008.The other quarterfinals are Ajax-Juventus, Liverpool-Porto and Tottenham-Manchester City.After eliminating Real Madrid in the last round, Ajax, which has advanced further in the Champions League than any time since 2003, will now have to face Juventus, which rallied to eliminate Atlético Madrid on Tuesday behind a Ronaldo hat trick.There are four English teams in the last eight, but only Spurs and Manchester City were drawn against one another. Those are also the only teams left that have never won the European title.Manchester City, currently leading the Premier League, is the favorite to win the Champions League this season, ahead of Juventus, Barcelona and Liverpool.Liverpool is likely to be happiest with its draw; it will take on Porto, at 125-1 the longest shot left in the competition.In the semifinal, the Spurs-City winner will take on Ajax or Juventus, and the United-Barcelona winner will face Liverpool or Porto.The first legs will be played on April 9 and 10, with the return games are April 16 and 17. The final is June 1 in Madrid.The quarterfinal matchups in the second-tier Europa League are: Napoli-Arsenal, Villarreal-Valencia, Benfica-Eintracht Frankfurt and Slavia Prague-Chelsea. Chelsea is currently the bookmakers’ favorite, ahead of Napoli and Arsenal, with Slavia the outsider.
A teenage girl who did not play soccer magically became a star soccer recruit at Yale. Cost to her parents: $1.2 million.A high school boy eager to enroll at the University of Southern California was falsely deemed to have a learning disability so he could take his standardized test with a complicit proctor who would make sure he got the right score. Cost to his parents: at least $50,000.A student with no experience rowing won a spot on the U.S.C. crew team after a photograph of another person in a boat was submitted as evidence of her prowess. Her parents wired $200,000 into a special account.In a major college admissions scandal that laid bare the elaborate lengths some wealthy parents will go to get their children into competitive American universities, federal prosecutors charged 50 people on Tuesday in a brazen scheme to buy spots in the freshman classes at Yale, Stanford and other big-name schools.[The college admissions scandal has raised a lot of questions. We’ve answered them here.]Thirty-three well-heeled parents were charged in the case, including Hollywood celebrities and prominent business leaders, and prosecutors said there could be additional indictments to come.Also implicated were top college athletic coaches, who were accused of accepting millions of dollars to help admit undeserving students to a wide variety of colleges, from the University of Texas at Austin to Wake Forest and Georgetown, by suggesting they were top athletes.The parents included the television star Lori Loughlin and her husband, the fashion designer Mossimo Giannulli; the actress Felicity Huffman; and William E. McGlashan Jr., a partner at the private equity firm TPG, officials said.[Read more here about the scheme worked, from bribes to doctored photos.]The scheme unveiled Tuesday was stunning in its breadth and audacity. It was the Justice Department’s largest-ever college admissions prosecution, a sprawling investigation that involved 200 agents nationwide and resulted in charges against 50 people in six states.The charges also underscored how college admissions have become so cutthroat and competitive that some have sought to break the rules. The authorities say the parents of some of the nation’s wealthiest and most privileged students sought to buy spots for their children at top universities, not only cheating the system, but potentially cheating other hard-working students out of a chance at a college education.In many of the cases, prosecutors said, the students were not aware that their parents were doctoring their test scores and lying to get them into school. Federal prosecutors did not charge any students or universities with wrongdoing.“The parents are the prime movers of this fraud,” Andrew E. Lelling, the United States attorney for the District of Massachusetts, said Tuesday during a news conference. Mr. Lelling said that those parents used their wealth to create a separate and unfair admissions process for their children.“The real victims in this case are the hardworking students” who were displaced in the admissions process by “far less qualified students and their families who simply bought their way in,” Mr. Lelling said.At the center of the sweeping financial crime and fraud case was William Singer, the founder of a college preparatory business called the Edge College & Career Network, also known as The Key.
The scheme was as brazen as it was elaborate: Dozens of wealthy parents, according to court documents filed Tuesday, paid millions of dollars in bribes to secure the admission of their children into elite universities.Test scores were inflated, essays were falsified and photographs were doctored, all in an illicit effort to gain entry to schools such as Yale, the University of Southern California and Georgetown. [Read more on the Justice Department’s largest ever college admissions prosecution.]“We help the wealthiest families in the U.S. get their kids into school,” said William Singer, the founder of The Edge College & Career Network, in a phone call with a parent he was helping to cheat, according to the charging documents. “There is a front door which means you get in on your own. The back door is through institutional advancement, which is 10 times as much money. And I’ve created this side door in.”Here is how Mr. Singer helped dozens of parents, including high-profile Hollywood actors and wealthy business leaders, get their children into top schools, according to the charging documents. [The college admissions scandal has raised a lot of questions. We’ve answered them here.]Mr. Singer would instruct parents to seek special circumstances for their children to take the SAT or ACT, the required standardized tests for acceptance to four-year universities. Parents would use medical documentation to claim their children had a learning disability. The students would then be given a chance to take the tests in a room with only a proctor, and sometimes over two days. Then they would sign up to take the exams at either a public high school in Houston or a private college prep school in West Hollywood, two locations that Mr. Singer said he “controlled.” Mr. Singer would tell clients to come up with a reason they would be in Houston or Hollywood, such as for a bar mitzvah or a wedding.Parents paid between $15,000 and $75,000 to Mr. Singer’s company so their children could be helped in one of three ways: Someone else would take the SAT or ACT exams for the student; a person would serve as the proctor and guide the students to the right answers; or someone would review and correct the students’ answers after the tests were taken. In one case, according to the documents, Felicity Huffman, an actress, told Mr. Singer her daughter’s high school had its own exam proctor in mind.Elisabeth Kimmel, the owner of a media company, used Mr. Singer’s services twice, first for her daughter in 2012 and then for her son in 2017, according to the documents. Her daughter attended Georgetown as a purported tennis recruit, and her son was accepted to the University of Southern California as a track-and-field pole-vaulter. But he was caught off guard during orientation.According to the documents, Jane Buckingham, who owns a boutique marketing firm in Los Angeles, agreed to pay $50,000 to Mr. Singer’s company so that someone other than her son would take the ACT. But the proctor would need to write the essay portion in a handwriting that mimicked her son’s.According to the charging documents, after the exams were scored high enough so that the students became competitive applicants, the parents paid bribes — structured as donations to the university and funneled through The Key — to university coaches, who would identify their children as athletic recruits.
Zinedine Zidane knew as soon as the name flashed up on his phone. Late last week, after Real Madrid crashed out of the Champions League to Ajax and saw painful defeats to Barcelona end its hopes in both La Liga and the Copa del Rey, Florentino Pérez, the club’s president, called the man he regards as “the best coach in the world.” He asked him to come back.“And here I am,” Zidane said.Just 284 days after he left Madrid — after three Champions League titles in three years — after claiming that both he and the club needed a “change,” Zidane walked back into the media suite at the Santiago Bernabéu flanked by his wife, Veronique, Pérez, and a phalanx of Real legends.After just two phone conversations with Pérez, Zidane agreed to take charge of Real until the summer of 2022. His love for the club he had graced as both a player and a coach, he said, was too great for him to resist. “I could not say no,” he said. “I am here because the president called me.”If Pérez had known it was that simple, he might have moved to get in touch sooner. Zidane lives in Madrid; he has witnessed, firsthand, the “difficult” season his team has endured, first under Julen Lopetegui — poached from the Spanish national team on the eve of the World Cup in June, fired before Halloween — and then his replacement, the former youth team coach Santiago Solari. “I was watching my players, and I was not happy about how things were” he said.Madrid sits third in La Liga, behind not only Barcelona but also its city rival, Atlético; it is out of the Copa del Rey; and, most damaging of all, it was eliminated by Ajax in the last 16 of the Champions League last week, losing the second leg of the tie by 4-1 at home. “We are going through a difficult and complicated moment,” Pérez said. “We know what pain that brings the fans.”Little wonder, then, that Zidane — just as he did when he left Madrid, five days after lifting the third of those Champions Leagues — took to the rostrum once again speaking of the need for change. “This club is what had to and has to change,” he said. “Things have to change, in every way. We have to change for next season.”The nature of the change, though, is likely to be very different: Real must transform from a position of relative weakness, rather than strength. That is likely to mean a considerable overhaul of the playing staff: Pérez had long since accepted the need for an injection of funds into the team this coming summer, with the likes of Eden Hazard, the Chelsea forward, under consideration to join a third incarnation of the so-called Galactico project. Several high-profile members of the current squad, including Isco and Gareth Bale, may well have to be sacrificed to balance the books.The principal difference, then, is Zidane’s energy for the challenge. “I left the club because I needed it, for me, though at the time the club did not,” he said. “Since I love the president, and the club, I am here. After eight months, I want to coach again.”He has spent the last nine months, he said, “recharging my batteries, doing my things.” His list of honors, the unbroken European success he enjoyed in his first and only managerial role, ensured that he had not been short of suitors — he said he had received offers from several other teams — but none offered the emotional allure of Real.“Now I am ready to have the experience of coaching Madrid again,” he said. “They have given me the chance to be in this club once more, this club that I love very much.”
NEW YORK — Baseball's 2026 All-Star Game will be played in Philadelphia to mark the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, a person familiar with the planning told The Associated Press.The person spoke on condition of anonymity Thursday because no announcement had been made.A news conference is scheduled for Tuesday with Independence Hall as a backdrop and is to include Commissioner Rob Manfred, Phillies owner John Middleton, Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf and Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney.This will be the first All-Star Game at Citizens Bank Park, which opened in 2004. The 1976 All-Star Game was played at Veterans Stadium to mark the 200th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, and the 1996 All-Star Game also was played at the Vet, which stood in the same sports complex in South Philadelphia. The 1943 and 1952 games were at Shibe Park.This year's All-Star Game is July 9 at Cleveland's Progressive Field, which also hosted the All-Stars in 1997, when the ballpark was known as Jacobs Field. The 2020 game will be at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, site of the 1980 game. Sites for 2021-25 have not been announced.Lincoln Financial Field, adjacent to Citizens Bank Park, is among the venues under consideration to hold matches during soccer's World Cup in June and July 2026.___
CHESTER, Pa. — Jill Ellis has had three years to tinker.She knew better than anyone how quickly this summer’s Women’s World Cup would arrive, so Ellis, the United States women’s national team coach, started remaking her squad almost as soon as it crashed out of the 2016 Rio Olympics.She tinkered while her star forward signed a contract to play in France for half a season, and she tinkered when her captain signed a similar deal to join a club in England. She tinkered by bringing in new players and by dropping old ones. She tested new formations and tweaked more familiar ones, and engaged in experiments prompted by injuries, player availability and even curiosity.But Ellis said Tuesday that she is done tinkering. The players — with at least one notable exception — who are in camp for the three-game She Believes Cup, which they started with a disappointing (at least defensively) 2-2 draw against Japan on Wednesday, will form the core of the group Ellis will take to defend the United States’ world championship at the World Cup in France.There are, of course, familiar names — Alex Morgan, Megan Rapinoe, Julie Ertz, Tobin Heath — in camp. But fans who haven’t followed the team since it won its World Cup title in Canada will soon come to know several new ones, too: Rose Lavelle, Jessica McDonald, Sam Mewis, Tierna Davidson. And for the first time since 2005, the United States will enter a major tournament without Hope Solo in goal.But 100 days before the World Cup opens — a milestone that arrived on Wednesday — Ellis and her players said this week that their biggest questions already had been asked and answered.“You’ve kind of built the skeleton,” Ellis said. “Now we’re working on the nervous system.”The process has not always been pleasant. Lloyd, the star of the 2015 World Cup victory, has been eased into a supporting role, and players like Lindsey Horan and Crystal Dunn — who were not part of the 2015 team — have become nearly irreplaceable. Blessed with a wealth of speed and attacking options, Ellis toyed with a three-defender system early in the process to see if a relentless focus on getting forward would enjoy adequate cover if the ball was turned over. Spoiler: It didn’t, so she adjusted again.“I would say that it was uncomfortable,” defender Becky Sauerbrunn said of working through the evolution in real time. “And she was very honest with us and was saying she wants it to be uncomfortable.”“She said she was going to throw people into formations and into games that maybe they weren’t prepared for,” Sauerbrunn added. “And she wanted to see how they reacted, because in a World Cup you never know what you’re going to face, and you’re going to have to be able to take those challenges on and still perform well. And so I feel very strong having gone through that process.”The focus now is on polishing partnerships and connections, the “nervous system” connecting players on the field that Ellis mentioned Tuesday. Those connections were clearly lacking at times on Wednesday night, particularly in a makeshift back line that was missing the leadership and direction of an absent Sauerbrunn.“We definitely talk about relationships a lot — who you’re playing with on the sides of the field, who you’re playing with in the middle of the field, and your relationships with them,” Mewis said. “And the coaches have definitely mentioned to us that not only are they looking at individual players, they’re looking at how those players interact with the players around them.”Health issues have complicated some of those decisions. Horan, a fixture in the American midfield, will miss the She Believes Cup with a quad injury. The 20-year-old Davidson (broken ankle) and the 30-year-old Kelley O’Hara (ankle surgery) are still working their way back into top form.One of the players hoping to contend for a place in the midfield with Horan out, Danielle Colaprico, was ruled out herself this week because of a recurrence of a groin injury. Emily Fox, a young defender who had seemingly fallen out of the picture after a poor performance at left back against France in January, replaced Colaprico on the roster — but there are no guarantees Fox will go to the World Cup.“The door’s not closed for anybody,” Ellis said, though she acknowledged the time had long passed when she could afford to give a player on the fringes of the team an extended look.
In many ways, there has never been a better time to be a member of the United States women’s national hockey team.Two years after the players threatened to boycott the world championship tournament over pay equity, U.S.A. Hockey, the national governing body, is paying them more than ever, about $71,000 each annually.On the ice, the American women have continued to exceed the achievements of the men’s national team and won their second Olympic gold medal in a stirring final against Canada.Members of the team have skated in the skills competition at N.H.L. All-Star weekend and served as analysts for N.H.L. television broadcasts. Participation in the sport among girls and women is skyrocketing.But halfway through the labor contract with U.S.A. Hockey signed in March 2017, as the national team begins its pursuit of a fifth straight world championship in Finland this week, its players wonder whether the future of their sport is as bright as the present. Those concerns grew after the Canadian Women’s Hockey League, one of two professional leagues in North America, announced Sunday it would fold in May.Although the American players negotiated gains in salary and travel and medical benefits two years ago, the “groundbreaking support” for girls and women’s hockey promised by U.S.A. Hockey in the contract has been slow to develop. The Women’s High Performance Advisory Group created in the deal has been largely invisible. Minimal promotion for the team and a lack of organizational diversity in U.S.A. Hockey also raise concerns from players and female alumni that little has changed.“People are drooling for women’s hockey,” forward Kendall Coyne Schofield said in an interview late last year. “But the product we deliver isn’t being shown. There’s been a lot of lost opportunities, a lot of opportunities that haven’t been capitalized on.”Those opportunities included high-profile media appearances before the Olympics like a national magazine feature, a major network documentary series and other live television offers, which U.S.A. Hockey declined, according to three people with direct knowledge of those projects. After the Olympics, some players were unaware that they were eligible for four-figure bonuses offered by Hershey’s for winning the gold medal.U.S.A. Hockey’s executive director, Pat Kelleher, was not made available for an interview to discuss the women’s national team.After the Olympics, the women’s team embarked on a weeklong national media tour, but players were frustrated that there were no plans for a post-Olympic exhibition tour. In an interview late last year, forward Hilary Knight lamented that the team disappeared when its popularity was at its highest.Because of the talent disparity between North American teams and the rest of the world, there are not many viable opponents for the Americans, and Canada’s cooperation is necessary. Last month, the two nations finally staged a three-game exhibition series, with one game in the United States. An announced crowd of 9,048 fans attended the game in Detroit, which was also broadcast live on NHL Network.But other avenues to increase exposure do not need Canadian co-signs, like merchandising. Nike, the official apparel supplier of U.S.A. Hockey and a company that champions equality in advertisements, does not sell jerseys of American women’s players or products specifically featuring female players. Neither does U.S.A. Hockey’s online store.Coyne Schofield, one of the players who has been featured by the N.H.L. since the Olympics, is inundated with inquiries from parents about where they can buy apparel with her name. She has memorized a response with detailed instructions on how to purchase customized men’s items, even down to the six-week shipping time frame. That’s how Knight obtained replicas of her jersey for her family.“That alone is so degrading,” Coyne Schofield said. “There’s no reason why anybody shouldn’t be able to go on usahockey.com and buy a Hilary Knight jersey, my jersey. Right now, women’s hockey is not accessible to consumers. It needs to be accessible in every fashion.”Nike, which recently unveiled soccer kits for the 2019 Women’s World Cup that for the first time were specifically designed for women’s teams, did not respond to requests to discuss its women’s hockey apparel.
TORONTO — The Maple Leafs superstars John Tavares and Auston Matthews have been as good as advertised this season, and often even better.But Mitch Marner, who came to this championship-starved city with high expectations after he was chosen with the No. 4 overall pick in 2015, has had a breakout year and made a case that he’s the most valuable Maple Leafs forward.Marner, a 21-year-old winger, led Toronto in points this season and became the youngest player in Maple Leafs history to record 90 points, the first to hit that benchmark in 22 years.Marner finished 11th in the N.H.L. with 94 points (26 goals and 68 assists), six points ahead of Tavares and 21 ahead of Matthews, who missed 14 games because of injury. Marner and Tavares play on the same line, and Marner was a key reason Tavares, in his first season in Toronto, had a career-high 47 goals this season.[N.H.L. playoffs: first-round schedule and results]Tavares, Matthews and Marner, along with goaltender Frederik Andersen, will need to be at their best as the Maple Leafs seek postseason redemption against the Boston Bruins, their first-round opponent for the second straight season. Their best-of-seven series starts Thursday in Boston.The wounds remain fresh from last spring’s opening round, when Toronto coughed up a 4-3 second-period lead and lost, 7-4, in a shocking conclusion to Game 7.But last season the Leafs didn’t have Tavares, the longtime Islanders star. His signing to a seven-year, $77 million contract as a free agent last summer created hope in a city long accustomed to hockey failure. The Leafs haven’t won the Stanley Cup since 1967 and haven’t won a playoff series since 2004.Although Marner can’t match Tavares or Matthews in goal-scoring ability, he has wowed everyone with his vision.“The one thing about Marner,” Tampa Bay Lightning Coach Jon Cooper said, “is he is as smart a player as this league has not only seen this year, but has ever seen.”Marner attributes his creativity to playing multiple sports as a youth. Soccer helped develop his footwork, and lacrosse was important in developing his hands and mobility around the goal area.“Both soccer and lacrosse are creative in their own ways,” Marner said. “In soccer, I was a midfielder so I did a lot of the running up and down the field, and lacrosse-wise I think it helped with the hands a lot. It’s a different kind of motion in lacrosse for trying to get around guys, so I think that helped as well.”Born in Markham, Ontario, north of Toronto, Marner evokes comparisons to Patrick Kane and Johnny Gaudreau, other elusive, flashy stickhandlers. But in these parts, the 6-foot, 175 pound Marner is more reminiscent of Doug Gilmour, another smallish Maple Leafs forward who brought a heart and joy to the game.“He’s skilled, explosive and wants the puck and sees the ice so well,” said Gilmour, who believes Marner will someday break his franchise record for assists in a season, 95.Tavares said Marner has talked to him on the bench about the patterns he saw opponents employing.
PARIS — French TV group TF1 will exclusively broadcast the 2019 Rugby World Cup in France, it said on Wednesday, lifting the shares of the country's major TV broadcaster."After the success of previous editions, notably during the 2011 final between France and the All Blacks with 17.8 million viewers and 87 percent of audience share, TF1 Group will offer the French audience all 48 matches of the 2019 Rugby World Cup," TF1 said in a statement.TF1 shares were up 4.1 percent at 0750 GMT, and were the best performers on Paris' SBF-120 index, as analysts and fund managers welcomed the contract win."Given the sluggishness of the overall advertising market, any bit of good news regarding TV advertising is going to be well received by the market. In that context, winning exclusive rights for the Rugby World Cup - even if it's not as big as the soccer World Cup - is a good bit of news for TF1," said Gregoire Laverne, fund manager at Roche Brune Asset Management.France will go into this year's Rugby World Cup in Japan, which takes place from September through to November, on the back of a poor Six Nations tournament.Jacques Brunel, the coach of "Les Bleus", believes his team can iron out their problems before the World Cup but another disappointing Six Nations campaign suggested it would be an achievement for them to reach the knockout rounds in Japan.France beat Scotland and Italy in the Six Nations but were thrashed by England and Ireland, and their second-half collapse against Wales showed their mental fragility. (Additional reporting by Blandine Henault; Editing by Richard Lough and Mark Potter)
(Reuters) - Nike Inc's long-time brand ambassador Tiger Woods gave investors another reason to cheer on Monday, after the world's biggest name in golf won the Masters, pushing the company's stock higher.In his signature red shirt and black shoes with the Nike "swoosh" logo, the 43-year-old came back from a series of setbacks to claim his fifth Green Jacket on Sunday, ending an 11-year major title drought."A win for a high profile endorser is a clear win for the brand," Nomura Instinet analyst Simeon Siegel said.Nike celebrated his victory by posting an ad on its website titled "Tiger Woods: Same Dream," which has received nearly 500,000 views on YouTube in less than a day.President Donald Trump praised the win, tweeting: "Love people who are great under pressure. What a fantastic life comeback for a really great guy!"Nike and Woods forged a partnership that dates back more than two decades through good times and bad publicity. The brand already has a celebrated pool of endorsers, including tennis star Serena Williams, basketball phenom LeBron James, soccer stars Cristiano Ronaldo and Neymar Jr, as well as golfers Francesco Molinari and Brooks Koepka. While not transformational, Woods' win should provide a boost to Nike's golf apparel business, marketing consultancy firm Metaforce co-founder Allen Adamson said."His win is good for golf and its good for Nike," he said. Nike's shares were up about 1 percent at $87 Monday morning. (Reporting by Nivedita Balu and Uday Sampath Kumar in Bengaluru; Editing by Anil D'Silva)
COPENHAGEN — Chinese pandas Xing Er and Mao Sun are settling into their new home at Copenhagen Zoo.Their 160 million Danish crowns ($24 million) enclosure was opened to the public on Thursday by Denmark's Crown Princess Mary after the animals were officially welcomed on Wednesday. "We're enjoying the sun today - it couldn't be better. A lot of guests will come today to see the real life pandas," the Australian-born princess told reporters on Thursday."That a zoo has pandas is unique and can be compared to advancing in the Champions League," zoo spokesperson Jacob Munkholm Hoeck said, likening it to the elite soccer tournament.The zoo is hoping to start a breeding programme with the animals."We have a female panda named Mao Sun and a male panda called Xing Er and they are five and six years old ... In the wild they live on their own, just like here. But once every year when the female is on heat, we'll bring them together and then we hope they can make panda babies," the spokesman said. Queen Margrethe cut the ribbon on the animals' new enclosure during a ceremony on Wednesday which drew a small number of protesters. A few protesters waving Tibetan flags were also gathered outside of the zoo on Thursday. Danish-Chinese relations have improved markedly since a low point 10 years ago, when Prime Minister Lars Lokke Rasmussen met the Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, who Beijing brands as a dangerous separatist.Copenhagen Zoo, which hit the headlines for the killing and public dissection of a healthy giraffe five years ago, has become the 27th of the world's around 10,000 zoos to have pandas, and the ninth in Europe.  ($1 = 6.6404 Danish crowns)  (Reporting by Teis Jensen; Editing by Alison Williams)
FRONT PAGEAn article on Sunday about the impact of child care on Japanese women’s careers described incorrectly employment statistics for women in Japan. The proportion of working women employed part time is close to half, not more than half, and the proportion on temporary contracts is more than half, not about a third.INTERNATIONALA headline with an article on Monday about the discovery of the wreckage of the aircraft that crashed carrying the Argentine soccer striker Emiliano Sala referred incorrectly to the plane. As the article correctly stated, it was a single-engine, propeller-driven airplane, not a jet.ARTSAn entry on Monday in the “What’s on TV” highlights described incorrectly the debut episode of “Elvis Goes There.” It opens with a visit to London with the actor and director Paul Feig, not a visit to Oakland, Calif., with the director Ryan Coogler.•An article on Sept. 21 about Maroon 5’s scheduled appearance in Sunday’s Super Bowl halftime show misstated the name of the band’s song with Cardi B. It is “Girls Like You,” not “Girls Like Us.” (The correction was delayed, because it was only recently brought to the attention of the editor.)Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.


MANCHESTER, England — Some soccer players in England boycotting social media in a protest against racism were targeted with abuse for posting about the 24-hour campaign.Talks with the social media companies are now being urgently sought by the Professional Footballers' Association, which coordinated the "Enough" campaign to demand a crackdown on racism by the platforms.There was silence on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram from many players from 0800 GMT Friday for 24 hours."Yesterday, some members received racist abuse on their #Enough posts. When these incidents were reported, the response from social networks was — again — unacceptable," the PFA said in a statement. "In the coming days, we will be inviting players to report any racist abuse they have received to us. We will collate it and share it with social platforms to demonstrate the impact of their lack of action.""We will be requesting meetings with each of the social platforms as a matter of priority," the PFA said. "Meetings with the Football Association and government are planned for next month. This is a first step in a larger player-led campaign to tackle racism and demand meaningful change."The boycott was advocated by Tottenham defender Danny Rose, who was targeted with monkey noises while playing for England in Montenegro last month, and Manchester United defender Chris Smalling, who called for more stringent regulation of posts on social media.Social media companies did not appear to respond on their networks to the players' concerns despite widespread coverage and support from FIFA for the boycott.Twitter did not respond to an email from The Associated Press requesting comment and Facebook, which also owns Instagram, provided a statement that did not directly address the players' concerns."We will remove hate speech or credible threats of any kind, and we encourage anyone who sees content they find offensive to report it so we can remove anything that breaks our community standards," Facebook said by email. "We have developed a range of tools that allow users to moderate and filter the content that people put on their pages including; hiding or deleting comments, blocking certain words, turning on a profanity filter, and banning people."___
Less than a month after the New England Patriots won the Super Bowl, a group of Massachusetts lawmakers has proposed a bill that would ban organized youth tackle football until after seventh grade.The bill, which moved to the Massachusetts legislature’s Joint Committee on Public Health this week, follows unsuccessful attempts by legislators in five other states to pass similar measures to protect growing brains from traumatic injury.The bipartisan bill, known as No Hits, would impose financial penalties for any school league or other entity that does not comply.“There is significant science detailing repetitive head impacts have long-term neurological consequences, especially when they occur during brain development,” one of the bill’s sponsors, Representative Paul A. Schmid III, a Democrat, said in a statement.Although some medical professionals and former N.F.L. players have signaled their support for the measure and public opinion could buoy its prospects, the bill is already facing headwinds.Two representatives who initially supported the measure have withdrawn their names from the bill, and a few other legislators said they would not support it.“Should we ban youth soccer too?” asked Representative David Nangle, a Democrat who opposes the bill. “Or youth hockey? When do we stop legislating into areas that we shouldn’t be?”A spokeswoman for U.S.A. Football, which governs youth football, said in a statement that the organization believes that decisions on allowing children to play football are “best left to parents.” To that end, she said, it has created a set of guidelines developed by leaders in athlete development and football.The executive director of Pop Warner, Jon Butler, said in a statement that the organization had worked to improve player safety by eliminating the three-point stance and removing kickoffs for younger athletes. “Banning football is not the answer, but we do agree that we should continue our efforts to make the game safer for our kids,” he said.Studies by Boston University and other research centers have shown that children who began playing tackle football before the age of 12 were at greater risk for cognitive, mood and behavioral issues later in life, as well as conditions like chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease linked to repeated hits to the head.But there has been opposition to those findings from the N.F.L. and even from well-intentioned parents, said Michael Kaplen, a lawyer who teaches a legal course on traumatic brain injury and tracks legislation governing youth tackle football. Mr. Kaplen said that there was no such thing as safer tackling and that a youth league’s promoting safer tackling would be similar to big tobacco companies’ offering low-nicotine cigarettes.“People don’t understand that even a minor blow to the head has risks,” he said. “It may take years for these problems to become unmasked.”Steve Dembowski, 49, an executive board member of the Massachusetts High School Football Coaches Association, said parents, rather than the state, should be able to make choices for their children.“Considering that kids at that age get concussions playing soccer and baseball and any other sport where they can fall and hit their head on the ground,” he said, “it seems like an overstep of authority.”Damon Stanton, 43, has two sons who play football, and he coaches youth football in Hanson, Mass., about 25 miles south of Boston.
COSTA MESA, Calif. — Dean Spanos is breathing a sigh of relief.Spanos, owner of the Los Angeles Chargers, has been criticized relentlessly for moving his team out of San Diego — into a soccer stadium, no less — and for the tepid reception the team has received in its new home 100 or so miles north.But in sports, winning is the ultimate elixir, and the Chargers (and their new crosstown rivals, the Rams) are winning.The Chargers went a surprising 12-4 this season, including victories in Seattle, Pittsburgh and Kansas City. They will face the Patriots in Foxborough, Mass. on Sunday.The wins come at a critical time for the team, which has started selling seat licenses to would-be season-ticket holders in the new, 70,000-seat stadium the Chargers will share with the Rams beginning in 2020.In an interview at the team’s training facility this week, Spanos said that the Chargers’ success was helping generate interest in the team, but that winning over fans in Los Angeles was a long-term project.On the team’s decision to play temporarily in a 27,000-seat soccer stadium“Just being able to get around the stadium, the amenities, all the game-day experience is important, and I think it’s appreciated.”On the sale of seat licenses for season tickets in the new stadium“We’re probably where we thought we would be, and playing well really helps. Timing is everything. It kind of jumps every time [we win]. Monday mornings are great when you win in the playoffs.”On the decision to price seat licenses as low as $100“We gave up a little, but enough to make it more affordable. Once we get them there, it’s more important than trying to make another 25 or 30 bucks a ticket. And that really helps you establish yourself in the market.”On the Chargers’ commitment to the market“There’s no doubt we’re the Los Angeles Chargers. Los Angeles is our home.”On competing with the Rams and whether the city can support two N.F.L. teams
SEOUL, South Korea — Wildfires fanned by strong winds raged through hills and villages along the northeastern coast of South Korea on Thursday night and Friday morning, scorching hundreds of homes and forcing thousands to evacuate as the government declared a national disaster.By Friday afternoon, tens of thousands of firefighters, police officers and soldiers had managed to contain the largest fires, which left at least one person dead, officials said.Most of the 4,000 people who had fled homes on Thursday, creating chaotic traffic jams along narrow mountain roads, returned by Friday, the government said.President Moon Jae-in declared the wildfires a national disaster on Friday, instructing his government to direct all necessary manpower and resources to fight the flames and provide relief for distressed villagers.Mr. Moon also asked his government to consider designating the affected area a special disaster zone so that victims there could get discounts on medical and national insurance premiums, as well as other government subsidies. His government has previously declared five disaster zones in the past two years in the aftermath of floods, earthquakes and typhoons.This week’s wildfires have burned an estimated 1,297 acres of wooded land, the equivalent of over 730 soccer fields.The fires were believed to have been started by sparks from an electric transformer that was shaken by strong winds on Thursday, according to officials at the National Fire Agency.As flames raced downhill, villagers and teenagers on field trips in the area were evacuated to schools in nearby towns. More than 50 schools in the region asked their students to stay home on Friday.The region is close to the border with North Korea and near where South Korea hosted the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics. The blaze was one of the worst wildfires since 2005, when 2,400 acres of wooded land, as well as a centuries-old Buddhist temple, were destroyed on the east coast.
“Combat Obscura” opens with multiple disclaimers stating that nothing onscreen reflects official policy or has Defense Department endorsement. Given that the next moment the screen shows an explosion — and someone shouts “that’s the wrong building!” — the reason for the warnings is immediately apparent.As a United States Marine in Afghanistan, Miles Lagoze, the director, worked as a videographer, documenting scenes of war for official release. (We see a clip of such material on CNN midway through the film.) Somehow, Lagoze kept his hands on unreleased footage he and others shot in Afghanistan in 2011 and 2012, and made it the basis for this film.He presents these outtakes with minimal orientation. One through line is the mutual incomprehension between Americans and Afghans. Early on, a Marine believes an Afghan child has warned him about a bomb. He radios a translator, who listens to the boy and says he was simply trying to bum a cigarette.The Marines round up men at a gathering but ultimately release them. One American thinks it “looked like a Taliban meeting,” though the movie suggests reasons to doubt that.Later, the Marines examine a body, and one asks aloud whether they have just killed a shopkeeper. (“This is no good for people to see,” another says.) In these scenes, the decision to forgo context is powerful and troubling.The film also shows the Marines, none formally identified, during lulls, goofing off and getting high. (“Luckily for us, Afghanistan’s a hash farm,” one says.) There is optimism — a soccer game with Afghan children — and quick work tending the wounded. Leaning in to the style its patchwork of source material requires, “Combat Obscura,” is an eye-opening dispatch from a conflict mired in confusion.
WASHINGTON — A rat falling out of the arena hallway ceiling during the Carolina Hurricanes' warmup game of soccer was just a precursor to a wacky afternoon of playoff hockey.Long after the dead rodent was removed, Game 2 between the Hurricanes and Washington Capitals included a questionable ejection for a check to the head, a shot off one goalie's mask and another that went in off the other goalie's backside. It fittingly ended with an overtime goal from an unlikely source that sent the defending Stanley Cup champions into a wild celebration around the team's most popular player.Veteran leader Brooks Orpik scored 1:48 into overtime Saturday to give Washington a 4-3 victory and a 2-0 lead over Carolina in the first-round series. His fourth goal in his 151st playoff game was his third winner, and Orpik became just the 11th defenseman in NHL history with two postseason overtime goals."I'm probably not counted on for too many goals, but I think if you want to have the long runs, you need everybody kind of chipping in and doing things they don't normally do," Orpik said. "Always feels good when the team comes out on top."The Capitals came out on top thanks to Alex Ovechkin's two perfect passes, a 5-on-3 penalty kill and a stick shortage by Carolina that allowed Evgeny Kuznetsov to find Orpik for his goal. Afterward, owner Ted Leonsis quipped, "Just like it was drawn up."There was no way to script the strange happenings that unfolded on and off the ice. Perhaps it was an omen for things to come when the ball used in the Hurricanes' pregame soccer ritual knocked a rat down from the ceiling."I saw that," Carolina's Sebastian Aho said. "First time I've seen it. Kind of odd."Then the game happened. Just like Game 1, the Capitals jumped out to an early 2-0 lead — this time on goals by Nicklas Backstrom and T.J. Oshie — but this time the Hurricanes didn't wait until the third period to come back.Lucas Wallmark scored late in the first after teammate Saku Maenalanen brushed Braden Holtby, which Capitals coach Todd Reirden challenged for goaltender interference. It held up because the NHL situation room and referees determined the contact wasn't significant enough to disallow the goal."Playing the position, you know that that's interference," said Holtby, who made 25 saves. "But there's a point in hockey where you've just got to battle, too. I'm not going to complain about a call or no-call. I know that doing that is giving me the best chance to stop that puck. We move on."Things only got stranger in the second period. Less than a minute after exiting the penalty box, Hurricanes forward Micheal Ferland hit Nic Dowd while bent over and was given a five-minute match penalty for an illegal check to the head and ejected.After officials conferred and decided to make it a five-minute major, coach Rod Brind'Amour screamed at referee Steve Kozari that it was a clean hit, pointing to his hip to emphasize Ferland made mostly hip to shoulder contact. Dowd left to go through concussion protocol but returned."To be honest with you, I let up," said Ferland, who added he doesn't expect to be suspended. "I could have finished with my shoulder, but I didn't. I came, hit him with my butt. I thought it was a clean hit. I don't agree with the call."During the ensuing power play, a one-timer from defenseman John Carlson hit Hurricanes goaltender Petr Mrazek on the right side of his mask and knocked it off. Mrazek winced in pain but did not get pulled for concussion protocol and stayed in the game."It caught me a little bit on the chin there," said Mrazek, who made 29 saves. "When I fell, I didn't have the mask on and I hit the ice pretty hard with my face. That was the worst."
MINNEAPOLIS — The plains of West Texas are a long way from the bustling piazzas and porticos of northern Italy, where Davide Moretti was raised in a soccer culture and basketball was just a niche.But NBA fans in Italy can now look to the likes of Danilo Gallinari and his 20-point scoring average for the Los Angeles Clippers in a league that has made major strides in Europe since Moretti was born in Bologna 21 years ago.The college game, however, has been a decidedly foreign concept overseas, though, with the term March Madness likely to elicit strange looks even if correctly translated.Well, there's hardly been an NCAA championship with more of a global presence than this one, with Moretti's Texas Tech Red Raiders facing the Virginia Cavaliers in the title game Monday night. Eight players are from other countries.Moretti, the sophomore starting guard for Texas Tech , once played on an Italian junior national team with Virginia forward Francesco Badocchi, who has redshirted his first season."We're the first Italian guys who have ever made it to the Final Four," Moretti said, "so it's kind of a big-time thing right now back in Italy for basketball."According to data calculated by digital content producer Hero Sports, of the 1,036 players in this year's NCAA Tournament, 117 listed a home country other than the United States. Canada (23) contributed the most, followed by Australia (14). Seventeen other countries produced at least two players, including seven from African nations.For an American kid, a shooting session in the driveway after dinner could naturally include a singing of "One Shining Moment" and an idyllic vision of cutting down the nets at the national championship game. Not so much in other countries, where the presence of soccer and the significant time zone difference have long been more than enough to keep college basketball in the dark."When the games are on, it's usually when we're at school and stuff like that so we don't get to watch it because we're doing other things," said Kody Stattmann, another Virginia redshirt and a native of Australia.Starting forward Mamadi Diakite, whose buzzer-beating shot sent the Cavaliers to overtime in the Elite Eight where they outlasted Purdue, has become a national hero in Guinea. In Africa, though, his family and friends have to settle for watching replays."The day after the game, I get texts about it," Diakite said.For many of these international players, then, the desire to drape a gold, silver or bronze medal around their neck can be a bigger goal than winning an NCAA title with their college teams, as exhilarating as that can be."Playing in an Olympics is something that everybody dreams of," said Moretti, who will try to make the Italian national team for the FIBA World Cup this summer.Moretti played on junior teams in European and world championships, burnishing his credentials as one of the top international prospects before choosing Texas Tech over Indiana, Connecticut and Utah.Badocchi moved to the U.S. earlier to further develop his game in high school in Kansas, his mother's home state. Her work in the fashion industry brought her to Milan, where she met Badocchi's father.

For Arike Ogunbowale, the trip to the top of the Empire State Building on Wednesday was unusually fast.It had been arranged for her to bypass the lines and take express elevators to the observatory on the morning she was to become a professional basketball player. In the hours leading to the 2019 W.N.B.A. draft, these kinds of experiences did not faze Ogunbowale. Not after she had become one of the most recognizable faces in college basketball after hitting a pair of buzzer-beaters for Notre Dame in last year’s Final Four — one to slay Connecticut, the other to best Mississippi State and win the national championship.“Nah, I’m used to life throwing new things at me now,” Ogunbowale said with a smile as she looked out over the New York skyline.Even for the relentless Ogunbowale, the past week has brought a particular kind of whiplash.On Wednesday night, the Dallas Wings selected her fifth in the draft, after the Las Vegas Aces took her college teammate Jackie Young with the top pick.“You know, Dallas is a great place, and they have a great coach there, so I’m really excited,” Ogunbowale said, referring to Brian Agler, who has won the league title with teams in Seattle and Los Angeles. “I’m ready to get started.”The draft followed her vintage set of performances in this season’s Final Four: 23 points in another win over Connecticut, and a game-high 31 points in the national title game against Baylor. Ogunbowale’s final shots came after a drive to the basket that yielded two free throws in the waning seconds, her team trailing by 2 points.Then, the unthinkable: a miss. And a championship lost. Ogunbowale’s painful moment played out on the national stage, too, amplified in part by her previous success. Her mother, Yolanda, raced down from the stands after the game to reassure her, to say how proud she was.“Over time, she’s going to realize that she won’t be defined by that moment,” Yolanda said Wednesday, hours before her daughter would hear her name called at the W.N.B.A. draft at Nike’s New York headquarters. “I was just hurting for her, and for her teammates, because they wanted it so bad.”And there would be no time to process. A late Sunday night game turned into a Monday morning flight to South Bend, Ind., where Ogunbowale has one more class to complete at Notre Dame before she graduates.Then it was onto New York, to see the realization of a professional dream that dates back to high school in Wisconsin, though first Ogunbowale had to choose basketball over soccer. (Oddly enough, Baylor recruited her for soccer.) She and her mother both say she could have gone pro in that, too. Confidence, backed up by results, runs in the family.The path Ogunbowale chose has worked out pretty well. Over these last few days, her strength and her network of fans have fed off each other. Yolanda said Arike’s bubbly personality had drawn people into her orbit since she was a little girl.Fans recognized her at the airport as she headed back to school, and some approached to cheer her up. People took notice, too, up on the Empire State Building observation deck. For Ogunbowale, it is becoming clearer that everyone still sees in her that dynamic personality, that same person who hit buzzer-beaters, who scored 55 in a high school game, who can count LeBron James and Kobe Bryant among her fans.“Kobe, LeBron, all of them, they’ve missed some important shots in their lifetime,” Ogunbowale said. “It’s a part of the game, you know? I’m not going to be able to make every shot. So I’m glad about my career, and I think I had a great four years. Everybody’s been telling me that. I mean, that’s just one shot. But what you’ve done these four years for the program, for just women’s basketball in general, is big.”How big? After the loss, Bryant reached out directly to encourage her. There seems to be something about Ogunbowale that make people root for her (unless they are part of the Connecticut faithful, that is).
The Obie Award-winning actress Quincy Tyler Bernstine got married last September on a rooftop in Brooklyn, but the honeymoon to St. Kitts had to wait. One of the most valuable performers in some of the boldest new Off Broadway work, she can seem almost omnipresent on New York stages. You might assume a show got in the way.Nope. At least, not directly.“I had jury duty,” Ms. Bernstine said the other afternoon in her dressing room at Lincoln Center Theater. “And I had postponed it so many times, because of plays, that I had to go.”So in January, she was fresh from her honeymoon when she went into rehearsals for Jackie Sibblies Drury’s fractured, time-jumping biographical epic “Marys Seacole,” at LCT3. She plays the title role, a formidable woman based on a historical figure, the adventuring 19th-century Jamaican nurse Mary Seacole. (The plural in the title hints at universality.)It’s a mammoth part with monologues that stretch on and on, and Ms. Drury wrote it with her in mind. But on about day two of rehearsals, Ms. Bernstine looked at a calendar and panicked. There wasn’t going to be nearly enough time.Spoiler: She figured it out, splendidly. Ben Brantley, in a glittering review in The New York Times, deemed her “fabulous,” “commanding” and “delightfully intimidating.”In that first week of rehearsals, though, she found herself in tears every evening, walking the few blocks from the theater to CNN, where her husband, Rick Hall, is a cameraman who covers breaking news.“I would go, and he would meet me in front of the building, and I would cry,” she said. “I would wake up in the morning: Cry. This has never happened before. I didn’t know how I was going to do this.”That reaction was understandable, said her director, Lileana Blain-Cruz, given that Ms. Bernstine had to deliver five pages of monologue in one scene and seven in another.“That’s enough to make anybody’s head trip,” Ms. Blain-Cruz said. “Even though she was terrified, that terror was so beautifully, privately contained. She didn’t allow it to contaminate the room.”Ms. Bernstine calls “Marys Seacole” the most challenging thing she has ever worked on. It pushed her, she said, “almost to the brink of wanting to give up.”“The jobs that are, I think, in the end most worth it are the ones that almost break you,” she continued with perfect calm. “That sounds horrible, doesn’t it,” she said. It wasn’t meant as a question.[What’s new onstage and off: Sign up for our Theater Update newsletter]This is the kind of career Ms. Bernstine has built, gravitating toward brainy work that challenges conventions and stretches forms — plays like Anne Washburn’s “Mr. Burns, a Post-Electric Play” (she played Bart Simpson), Heidi Schreck’s “Grand Concourse” and Bess Wohl’s “Small Mouth Sounds.”She won her Obie in Lynn Nottage’s “Ruined,” and made her only Broadway appearance so far in Sarah Ruhl’s “In the Next Room, or the vibrator play.” Last season, eager to work with the director Phylicia Rashad on a Stephen Adly Guirgis revival, she went unusually brassy in “Our Lady of 121st Street.”
Chelsea has paid Borussia Dortmund $73 million to complete the signing of Christian Pulisic, making the 20-year-old the most expensive American player in history by some distance.Though moving to the Premier League has “always been Christian’s dream,” according to Dortmund’s technical director, Michael Zorc, Pulisic will have to wait six months for it to be realized. He will spend the remainder of this season on loan at the Bundesliga leader, before joining up with Maurizio Sarri’s team in the summer.In a heartfelt statement posted on Twitter on Wednesday morning, Pulisic thanked the German club for the “opportunities” it had offered him since he arrived as a “raw, excited, very nervous but exceptionally proud 16-year-old from a small American town called Hershey.”He said it had been an “honor and a dream” to play for the club, and a “privilege” to experience the support of Dortmund’s fans. He told fans there was no need to doubt his “passion, determination and 110 percent commitment” as Dortmund attempt to win a first German title since 2013.He had, however, made it clear in recent months both to Zorc and Hans-Joachim Watzke, Dortmund’s chief executive, that he did not intend to extend his contract — due to expire in 2020 — at Signal Iduna Park. Instead, he had set his heart on moving to England, something related to his “American background,” according to Zorc. “Against that background, we have decided to accept an extremely lucrative bid from Chelsea,” Zorc said.The fee — more than three times the amount Wolfsburg paid Hertha Berlin for John Brooks, the German-born U.S. international, in 2017 — makes Pulisic the third most expensive player in Chelsea’s history, and the third most expensive player ever purchased from a Bundesliga team.It represents something of a success for Dortmund given that Pulisic has started just five of the team’s Bundesliga fixtures this season, having recovered from injury to find the likes of Jadon Sancho and Jacob Bruun Larsen blocking his path. He has started more regularly in the Champions League, featuring in all but one of Dortmund’s group games as the German team qualified with ease for the competition’s last 16.For Chelsea, though, Pulisic’s appeal had not faded. Aside from the likely marketing benefits of employing the most high-profile American player of his generation, Marina Granovskaia, the director who oversees the Premier League team’s transfer activity, described the signing as something of a coup for Pulisic’s on-field qualities.“Christian has shown his quality during a fantastic spell in Germany and at just 20, we believe he has the potential to become an important Chelsea player for many years to come,” Granovskaia said. “We look forward to welcoming him to Stamford Bridge in the summer and wish him and Dortmund every success for the remainder of the season.”Pulisic described the chance to sign for such a “legendary club” as a “privilege,” and said he “looked forward to being a contributor to their team of world-class players.”Whether Chelsea’s most obviously world-class player — Eden Hazard — remains in place when Pulisic arrives, though, remains open to question. The Belgian has admitted on several occasions that he is tempted by the prospect of a move to Real Madrid at the end of the season, though he has not agreed terms with the Spanish team and Real have not so much as submitted an offer to Chelsea, let alone had a bid accepted.Even if Hazard — whose contract also expires in 2020 — chooses to stay, the signing of Pulisic is likely to herald the departure of Willian and/or Pedro, despite the fact that Sarri has increasingly relied on playing both of them as he seeks to earn a place in the Champions League in his first year in charge at Stamford Bridge.Both are now in their 30s — Chelsea has a policy of not offering long deals to players approaching the end of their careers — and will be out of contract in 2020, too. Though Pulisic is not necessarily a like-for-like replacement for any of them, his arrival suggests Chelsea is starting to contemplate a long-anticipated overhaul of its squad as it seeks a way to keep pace with the likes of Manchester City and Liverpool.
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherNew Zealand is holding a national day of remembrance today for the 50 people killed in the mosque shootings in Christchurch. Our colleague spent several days with one family of one man who died in the attack. [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.]On today’s episode:Background reading:Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.
Note: Our Sixth Annual 15-Second Vocabulary Video Challenge is underway. It will run until Feb. 18._________The word paltry has appeared in 88 articles on NYTimes.com in the past year, including on Jan. 17 in “Politics Looms Over Empty Seats as Saudi Arabia Faces Qatar in Asian Cup” by Tariq Panja:_________The Word of the Day and the quiz question have been provided by Vocabulary.com. Learn more and see usage examples across a range of subjects in the Vocabulary.com Dictionary.
SYDNEY — Sydney FC's top of the table A-League clash against Perth Glory this month has been moved away from the Sydney Cricket Ground after a furore over the 'dangerous' pitch at the iconic stadium during the weekend.Australia's players' union joined Melbourne Victory boss Kevin Muscat in slamming the SCG pitch after visiting midfielder Terry Antonis suffered a knee injury during a match against Sydney FC on Saturday night.Head of Leagues Greg O'Rourke said that although the Football Federation Australia (FFA) considered the surface to be "playable and safe", the April 18 fixture would be moved to Jubilee Oval "in the best interests of all stakeholders"."The SCG's (cricket) wicket block ... compromises the uniformity of the field for football in particular," he said in a joint statement with Sydney FC and the SCG. Antonis fell to the ground untouched on the edge of the cricket square during a 2-1 loss for his side in a clash between the last two Australian champions.Professional Footballers Australia (PFA) called for an independent investigation into how the match was allowed to go ahead given the 'deplorable state' of the pitch, which the body said posed a clear danger to player safety.The SCG is being used by soccer, rugby league and rugby union teams in addition to hosting its usual cricket and Australian Rules matches while the neighbouring Sydney Football Stadium (SFS) is re-built. Some 3,000 square metres of turf were relaid after the surface was torn up during a rugby union match last month.Sydney FC travel to city rivals Western Sydney Wanderers next weekend but are assured of still being in second place behind Perth, who are six points clear at the top of the A-League, going into the match the following week. "This is a hugely important fixture with first playing second and we want the narrative to be about the football," Sydney FC Chief Executive Danny Townsend said."This is a decision made in the viewing interest of members and supporters."The SCG has hosted test cricket since 1882 and was the venue for hundreds of rugby league and union matches before the SFS was completed in 1988.  (Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly in Mumbai; editing by Nick Mulvenney)
A dozen years ago, the University of Washington barred athletic coaches from having contact with anyone in the admissions department.With a move that now seems prescient, two new administrators supervising athletics sought to allay any concerns that coaches could put undue pressure on admissions personnel. The change also brought more oversight to athletics, in this case through a committee of senior faculty members, deans and other university representatives.The previous arrangement, said Philip Ballinger, an associate vice provost now overseeing admissions, “didn’t have sufficient transparency; it didn’t have enough eyes on it.”The leeway coaches get in recruiting has long been a point of discussion in higher education circles. But after federal investigators last week revealed a broad admissions cheating scandal, a number of colleges began asking hard questions about how they evaluate athletic applicants and oversee the chosen few whom coaches recommend for admission.In what prosecutors described as the biggest case of admissions fraud they had investigated, 50 people were accused in a scheme that involved paying bribes to coaches and to people who monitor admissions tests in order to fraudulently get the children of wealthy patrons into some of the nation’s most elite colleges.Some students were accepted as recruited athletes even though they did not play the sports described in their applications. They gained an advantage through the widespread practice of allocating a certain number of admissions spots to athletes who might not get in otherwise.This process has been followed for decades in the pursuit of competitive teams, which burnish a university’s reputation, inspire alumni loyalty and often help with fund-raising.Now, the fraud case has sent a thunderbolt through the higher education community.“Every college president in America called his athletic director the morning after that admissions fraud story broke and asked: How do we make sure this doesn’t happen at our school?” said Bill Martin, the athletic director at the University of Michigan from 2000 until his retirement in 2010. “And certain athletic directors were smart enough to call their presidents first to insist that they were going to start verifying the status of every admitted recruited athlete.”Indeed, at Yale University, where F.B.I. investigators say the longtime women’s soccer coach accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars to facilitate the admission of a recruit who did not actually play soccer, the university president, Peter Salovey, announced late last week that new oversight policies had already been put in place. The Yale athletic director will begin reviewing every proposed recruit’s credentials before admission, and recruited athletes who fail to make a team after they arrive will receive “close scrutiny,” a university statement said.A broad overhaul of athletic admissions systems in Division I, the highest level of N.C.A.A. competition and the level the colleges in the scheme compete in, has been overdue, according to several athletic administrators interviewed in recent days.Battles over blue-chip recruits in football and basketball already tend to be heavily scrutinized. In those upper echelon sports, if there is money changing hands, it is from coaches to recruits, not the other way around.But in the lower-profile sports like crew, volleyball, tennis and soccer — often called the Olympic sports — there has been more room for bribes and exploitation. And the most common route in such a fraud is to designate a phony athletic prospect as a “recruited walk-on.” In nearly every case of counterfeit athletic credentials cited in last week’s indictments, from Stanford to Texas to Yale, the prospective athlete appeared to be filling the nebulous role of recruited walk-on.Such applicants are not even assured a spot on the team. But they are often on a list of five to 20 athletes — it varies from sport to sport — that a coach is permitted to submit to the admissions department.The two daughters of the actress Lori Loughlin, who was charged in connection with the fraud case last week, were passed off as crew recruits despite never having competed in the sport, according to federal prosecutors.
SHAOXING, China — Wang Jianfeng is no ordinary barber. The 39-year-old from Shaoxing in eastern China specializes in sculpting images of famous faces on to the backs of his clients' heads. From the likes of former Chinese leader Mao Zedong to KFC's Colonel Sanders, to film stars such as Bruce Lee and Jean Reno, Wang can do them all.Inspired by a video he saw online of renowned U.S. hair artist Rob Ferrel, who creates portraits of celebrities on his clients' scalps, Wang wanted to do the same for Chinese men.Since completing his first hair sculpting piece in 2015, Wang has steadily gained a loyal following. His work has become so popular that clients have traveled from neighboring provinces and cities to get their hair sculpted by Wang."It's a form of art," Wang said. "It comes from life but it is also beyond life."Shi Like, a 30-year-old delivery worker, is one of Wang's regulars whose previous hair art designs of choice include one of Salvador Dali's distinctive mustache.When Reuters visited Wang's barbershop, Shi opted for Chairman Mao to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the People's Republic of China. "Serving the people is my motto," Shi beamed, quoting the former Chinese leader himself."I feel like the image of the renminbi note is sculpted on my head," Shi added, laughing to himself. Another of Wang's regulars, 28-year-old Zhai Rubin, was visibly delighted to be getting a cut of one of his idols - former England soccer player David Beckham.Having Beckham's image on his head "means that I can be fashionable as him", said Zhai.Wang spends two weeks each month on the road, giving lessons around the country to barbers and hair stylists at major high street salon chains on how to sculpt basic patterns on to clients' heads. The rest of the time, when not running his barbershop business, Wang does hair art for around 8 to 10 clients each month. Clients are charged 200 yuan ($30) for each piece of hair art which is the same price as a normal haircut at Wang's barbershop. 

NEW YORK — With more TV streaming services than ever before, from newcomers like Disney Plus to stalwarts like Netflix, consumers may feel the ideal viewing experience is finally at hand.Americans have, on average, three streaming video subscription services, according to a recent study of digital media trends by Deloitte. While some have dropped cable and its average bill of around $100 a month altogether, about 43% have both pay TV and streaming subscriptions.Yet patching together a variety of services to get just what one wants isn't always seamless. Families and individuals can still find themselves with service that doesn't perfectly suit their viewing habits. And those monthly subscriptions can add up fast."It doesn't make sense to pay for a bunch of content you have no interest in watching," said Bruce McClary, vice president of marketing for the National Foundation for Credit Counseling. "Finding a service that lets you scale your channel lineup based on your interests can also help you avoid paying for things you don't need."A little research on which services are best for you can help save big bucks.FOR FAMILIESDisney is making the biggest play for family viewership. The owner of Disney Channel, the Star Wars franchise and most recently Fox's entertainment business is betting its mix of family-friendly franchises and beloved animated classics, along with original programming, will make the Disney Plus service irresistible to families, even if they already subscribe to other services. The service, launching Nov. 12, will cost $7 a month initially.For some kids, there may be no substitute for watching Disney's "Frozen" over and over again. But other services that families might already subscribe to have a lot of family-friendly programming too. Amazon Prime ($119 per year or $13 per month for Prime loyalty program membership; Prime Video alone costs $9 a month), Hulu ($6 to $12 per month), and Netflix ($9 to $16 per month) all offer kids programming.Another choice for parents: HBO Now ($15 a month) is the home for the classic kids TV show "Sesame Street." And for spendthrifts, YouTube's free Kids channel offers an endless stream of kid-friendly fare, although quality varies widely.FOR MOVIE BUFFSMovie fans will soon have to work a bit harder to find movies to stream. As Disney, Fox, Universal and Warner Brothers and others offer their own streaming services, they will all eventually pull their content from Netflix. But niche services are there to fill the void.Classic movies can be difficult to find streaming. Movie fans suffered a loss when AT&T, which bought Time Warner last year, decided to discontinue FilmStruck, a streaming service that was a collaboration between Turner Classic Movies and the Criterion Collection. But a similar service called The Criterion Channel that offers 1,000 classic and contemporary films is stepping up to fill the void. It costs $11 a month or $99 for a year.Other movie-centric streaming services include Fandor ($6 per month or $50 per year) or Mubi ($11 per month). Both offer a curated selection of movies.Those on a budget can try Kanopy, a streaming service that works with public libraries and universities to offer library card holders streaming movies for free.FOR SPORTS FANS
To the Editor:“Media Tips and Gulf Money Fuel Campaign to Sabotage Qatar’s Cup” (Sports pages, Feb. 2) implies that the challenges facing Qatar as host of FIFA’s 2022 World Cup are because of the current Gulf crises. However, the challenges facing Qatar 2022 predate the crises.When Qatar was awarded the right in 2010 to host the World Cup, it was assumed it would usher in a period of bridge building, peace, prosperity and moderation in the Middle East. It turned out that it was anything but in the interests of the region. FIFA, which has been marred with accusations of corruption, found itself being used as a vehicle to advance the political agenda of Qatar.Qatar is using the tournament to whitewash its image of being a host to Islamist extremists. Yet it continues to host such Islamists as Yusuf al-Qaradawi, who is barred from the United States and Britain. He has openly endorsed suicide attacks against Israelis (later reversing himself) and continues to be an ideological inspiration for Qatar’s regime. What Qatar laws and ethics dictate are in total contradiction to the FIFA Code of Ethics.When FIFA decided to investigate allegations of corruption related to Qatar 2022, hopes were high that it would no longer tolerate corruption. Allegations of corruption that surfaced again in 2018 would tend to indicate that FIFA did an incomplete job.Trust in global soccer as a bridge to peace and accountability is at stake. Before Qatar is allowed to host FIFA World Cup 2022, it must first answer questions about corruption allegations and address issues of anti-Semitism and extremism. If 2022 comes and Qatar does indeed host the World Cup without changing, the message the world is giving to Muslim and Arab youth is that extremism is acceptable. Qatar should also not be allowed to hide behind the current Gulf crises to avoid answering questions related to FIFA World Cup 2022.Ghanem NuseibehLondonThe writer is the founder of Cornerstone Global Associates, which published a report critical of holding the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. 
COPENHAGEN — The squats and leg lifts were harder than they looked, and after a few sets, Alfonso Aguirre Rodriguez placed his hands on his knees and attempted to compose himself.In November, Aguirre, a 24-year-old professional video game player from Spain, joined the five-man roster of Origen, a League of Legends team that competes in the game’s top European league. The players — all signed in late fall — were told at the time that the team might be run a bit differently from what they were accustomed to. Now here they were, five young men who make their living sitting almost completely still in front of desktop computers, sweating through an hourlong workout in a cramped gym.“I think I’m going to puke my oatmeal,” said Aguirre, who is known in the gaming community as Mithy. “I’m dying.”Some years ago, traditional sports leagues were revolutionized by young analysts wielding computers. The way things had always been done, it turned out, was not always the best way to do things. Now echoes of that transformation have arrived in the growing world of professional e-sports, where gamers are being shepherded toward a new frontier, oddly, by the old, corporeal wisdom of traditional sports.The debate about whether competitive gamers can be considered athletes may never end. In the meantime, though, gamers are increasingly acting like them.Origen is one of two teams owned by Rfrsh Entertainment, an e-sports company based in Copenhagen. Two years ago, the organization hired Kasper Hvidt, a former captain of Denmark’s national handball team, to be its sporting director. Hvidt, 43, had no previous exposure to gaming. But that was the point.E-sports in recent years have crept into the mainstream, attracting new fans, new sponsors and new investment. The top professionals now make six-figure salaries and earn even more with endorsements and prize money. And yet, Hvidt observed, their approach to performance remained amateurish.Eating right, sleeping right, exercising, cleaning up for sponsors — these ideas have undergirded traditional sports for generations. In e-sports, they are regarded as almost radical.“They don’t look at themselves as physical human beings,” said Hvidt, who won the European handball championship with Denmark in 2008.“It’s common sense, in a way. But with them it was not.”Rfrsh has a validating narrative under its belt. The company’s other team, Astralis, which competes internationally in the first-person shooter game Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, had gone almost a year without winning a tournament when Hvidt joined the organization in mid-2017. In 2018, the team earned $3.7 million in prize money while putting together one of the most dominant years ever by any team in any e-sports game.And so Origen this year has set off on the same journey of athletic self-improvement. As recently as last year, the players’ typical day might have been a sedentary extravaganza of sugary energy drinks, fast food and unresolved psychic tension. Now, their days are interposed with protein smoothies, yoga mats and slow-paced breathing exercises.The effects of those changes, the team said, have been plain to see: After starting the current season with a 1-4 record, Origen went on a tear, winning 11 of its final 13 matches, finishing the regular season in second place and securing a first-round bye for the playoffs, which began Friday.“These are little things,” Fabian Broich, Origen’s assistant coach, said. “But they add up, and over the long term you have a more emotionally stable team and a more focused team.”At Rfrsh, Hvidt has assembled a performance team — a physical trainer, a sports psychologist, a massage therapist, a medical doctor and a nutritionist — and constructed a lifestyle plan for the players that combines scientific research, old-school sports wisdom and simple common sense. Broich, 28, a former professional soccer player from Germany, acts as a liaison between the management team and the players, implementing the principles on the ground.
LOS ANGELES — A soccer fan says in a lawsuit that the California Department of Motor Vehicles violated his First Amendment rights by rejecting a personalized license plate he said would celebrate his favorite team, but which the DMV determined might be deemed offensive.Jon Kotler applied for a plate that would read "COYW," an acronym of the slogan "Come on You Whites" used by supporters of London-based Fulham Football Club, according to the federal lawsuit filed in Los Angeles on Tuesday. Fulham players wear white jerseys.In denying the proposed plate, the DMV said the abbreviation could "have racial overtones" and carry "connotations offensive to good taste and decency," according to the court filing.The department's rejection of the application violated his right to freedom of speech, said Kotler, a lawyer and constitutional scholar at the University of Southern California Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism.The Department of Motor Vehicles said Tuesday that it does not comment on pending lawsuits.Kotler's suit asks the court to declare the Department of Motor Vehicles' criteria for personalized license plates unconstitutional. He also wants the department to pay his court costs."You can't allow bureaucrats to make decisions that are fundamental to what it means to be an American, and our free speech is one of those things," Kotler said in a news release. "When the government starts to infringe on our rights, that's when the individual citizen must speak up."In its rejection letter to Kotler, the Department of Motor Vehicles acknowledged the difficulties in balancing "an individual's constitutional right to free speech and expression while protecting the sensibilities of all segments of our population."In a 1973 case, the California Court of Appeals upheld the Department of Motor Vehicles' standard of "good taste and decency" in rejecting a plaintiff's claim that his free speech was violated when the department rejected his requested license plate, "EZ LAY."Constitutional scholar David L. Hudson said courts are often split in cases claiming censorship over personalized plates."It appears in this case that the government has engaged in regrettable censorship of Mr. Kotler's speech," said Hudson, who teaches at Tennessee's Belmont University and is a fellow at the Freedom Forum Institute. "To me courts should be very sensitive to viewpoint discrimination and should err on the side of protecting the individual's speech from government censorship."Kotler is being represented pro bono by the libertarian-leaning nonprofit Pacific Legal Foundation. The group criticized the Department of Motor Vehicles' "attempt to make itself the speech police" in a statement announcing the lawsuit."You can call Jon a sports fan or a First Amendment expert, but the DMV's misguided efforts to regulate license plates have misbranded Jon as a racist," the foundation said.___
WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Eric Swalwell said on Monday he would seek the Democratic nomination for president, joining a crowded field seeking to take on Republican Donald Trump in the 2020 election.Swalwell, a third-term congressman from a California district south of San Francisco, made the announcement during a taping of CBS's "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert," which airs later on Monday. The program tweeted a clip of Swalwell saying he was running for president.Swalwell said tackling student debt and gun violence were among the reasons he jumped into the Democratic primary race."None of that is going to change until we get a leader who is willing to go big on the issues we take on, be bold in the solutions we offer, and do good in the way that we govern. I'm ready to solve these problems. I'm running for president," Swalwell said.Swalwell, 38, is now among the youngest candidates vying for the 2020 Democratic nomination, along with Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and Representative Tulsi Gabbard from Hawaii, both of whom are 37. Thirty-five is the minimum age to serve as U.S. president.Swalwell cited his work on the House Intelligence Committee and his founding of Future Forum, a group of more than 25 Democratic lawmakers that visits universities and community colleges to discuss issues important to millennial voters like student loan debt and climate change, among the reasons he would be a qualified White House candidate.In his first House campaign, Swalwell defeated a Democratic incumbent who had been in office since 1973, seven years before Swalwell was born.Since joining Congress, Swalwell has advocated for raising the cap on the portion of salary that is subject to the Social Security payroll tax. He has also proposed a "mobile Congress" that would allow lawmakers to cast votes remotely from their districts.Swalwell grew up in Iowa and California. He attended Campbell University in North Carolina on a soccer scholarship for two years before transferring to the University of Maryland, where he earned his bachelor's and law degrees.Other House lawmakers in the Democratic race include Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio, who announced his bid last week. Former Representative Beto O'Rourke from Texas is also a contender.U.S. senators vying for the Democratic presidential nomination include Kamala Harris of California, Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. (Reporting by Amanda Becker, Makini Brice and Eric Beech; Editing by David Alexander)
BOSTON — A tennis coach with a country club membership and a second home on Cape Cod. An assistant teacher at a Houston public high school. A college administrator whose reputation as a stickler for the rules belied what prosecutors say was a penchant for secretly taking bribes to facilitate students’ admission.All together, a dozen people, including six coaches, pleaded not guilty in federal court in Boston on Monday in the college admissions scandal that has ensnared Hollywood celebrities and forced a reckoning at elite colleges where prosecutors say students were admitted on the basis of falsified test scores and athletic credentials.Those who appeared in court showcased the wide range of people who prosecutors believe were caught up in the scheme. The man who connected them all was William Singer, a college admissions consultant known as Rick who has pleaded guilty to helping the children of clients cheat on college admissions exams and to facilitating bribes.So far, the prosecutors have revealed little beyond what is in the charging documents, leaving several mysteries. The United States attorney’s office has said that the investigation is continuing, leading to speculation that more parents or coaches could be charged.At a news conference on March 12, Andrew E. Lelling, the United States attorney for the District of Massachusetts, said that one client of Mr. Singer’s had paid $6.5 million to facilitate their child’s admission to college — many times more than what any of the other parents have been accused of paying. This payment is not mentioned in any of the documents, and the person who paid this sum has not been revealed. A spokeswoman for the attorney’s office would not identify the family or the school, but said it was paid to get a child into college through the athletic recruiting scheme.Also on Monday, the federal Department of Education sent letters to the eight colleges where coaches are alleged to have taken bribes, saying that it was opening an investigation of its own, according to a department official with knowledge of the investigation.The letter said that the investigation, first reported by Politico, would examine, among other things, whether the colleges violated any laws or regulations governing federal financial aid programs. It asked the colleges for information about their admissions policies, as well as the names, Social Security numbers and academic transcripts of students who were allegedly admitted as part of the scheme.Those who appeared in court in Boston on Monday, all of whom have been indicted on one count of racketeering conspiracy, are each accused of participating in one or both aspects of the scam.At one end of the spectrum of those charged was Gordon Ernst, the former head tennis coach at Georgetown University, who has been accused of taking $2.7 million in bribes from Mr. Singer to designate at least 12 applicants as recruits to the tennis team. Prosecutors are seeking forfeiture of Mr. Ernst’s country club membership and a second home on Cape Cod, among other assets. Mr. Ernst appeared in court on Monday flanked by two prominent defense lawyers.At the other end was Lisa Williams, an assistant teacher at a Houston high school known as Niki who prosecutors say took bribes — the indictment cites one in the amount of $5,000 — in exchange for allowing cheating on the college entrance exams. The judge noted that Ms. Williams, who entered her plea in a voice barely above a whisper, had qualified for a court-appointed lawyer.In a sign of the wide interest the case has generated, television cameras and photographers crowded the sidewalk outside the courthouse an hour before the hearing. Access to the courtroom was limited, with some journalists confined to a spillover room. Inside the courtroom, the defendants, their lawyers and family members, and a few members of the public, filled the benches on the left and in the center, while the benches on the right were packed with reporters.Most of the defendants appeared in suits, but one charged in connection with test cheating, Igor Dvorskiy, the director of a private school in Los Angeles, was dressed informally, in a gray sweater.Magistrate Judge M. Page Kelley conducted the hearing with the efficiency of an assembly line. She brought the defendants up three at a time to be arraigned. Mr. Ernst came first, and in addressing him about his rights and the consequences of violating the conditions of his release, Judge Kelley instructed the others to listen carefully so that she did not have to repeat herself.All of the defendants are out on bail, of varying amounts. Those who also appeared on Monday were Donna Heinel, the former senior associate athletic director at the University of Southern California; Laura Janke and Ali Khosroshahin, former University of Southern California soccer coaches; William Ferguson, the former women’s volleyball coach at Wake Forest University; Jorge Salcedo, the former head coach of men’s soccer at the University of California at Los Angeles; and Jovan Vavic, the former U.S.C. water polo coach.Others included Steven Masera, the accountant and chief financial officer of Mr. Singer’s company and a related nonprofit through which prosecutors say he funneled the bribes; Mikaela Sanford, an employee of Mr. Singer’s who is accused of taking online classes in place of some students so that they could submit the grades she earned as part of their college applications; and Martin Fox, the president of a private tennis academy in Houston, whom prosecutors say Mr. Singer paid for helping to arrange some of the bribes.
FIFA is pressing ahead with plans to expand the 2022 World Cup despite the concerns of some officials in the host nation, Qatar, whose support the project requires. The move, a politically perilous project but one heavily backed by FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, would grow soccer’s biggest championship to 48 teams ahead of schedule and require navigating some treacherous regional rivalries.Under the plan currently being considered, most matches in the 2022 tournament would still be held in Qatar — which won the rights to a 32-team event and continues to prepare for one — but other games would take place in Kuwait and Oman as part of a broader Middle Eastern World Cup. Infantino’s expansion would not send games to countries that are currently leading a political and economic blockade of Qatar, like the United Arab Emirates.Infantino, elected FIFA president in 2016 and seeking re-election to a four-year term in June, has been among the biggest proponents of an expanded World Cup that, through increased places for FIFA’s member associations and increased sponsorship revenues, could prove popular among countries that rarely get to compete in the tournament.A final call on the idea was expected to be made next week when FIFA’s governing council meets in Miami, but Infantino has decided to move the final decision to FIFA’s annual Congress in June, where he is standing unopposed for re-election.Should Qatar agree to the change — its consent is required — and should logistical challenges be overcome, Infantino would most likely seek the approval of FIFA’s 211 member federations, a grouping long known for rubber-stamping policies favored by the president. He had said previously that the decision would be taken up by the smaller FIFA Council, which governs the sport worldwide.FIFA and Qatar’s World Cup organizers did not comment on the matter.Privately though, some senior members of the organizing committee who have been working on the event since Qatar controversially secured it a decade ago are opposed to sharing the competition and frustrated that it may yet happen. Qatar’s final position on the matter will be defined by its rulers, who may see political advantage in agreeing to include specific neighbors.While Infantino has suggested that sharing games with Qatar’s neighbors would help heal rifts in the region, a FIFA-led group conducting a feasibility study has concluded that it would be impractical to include the blockading countries, which also include Bahrain, in hosting plans, leaving Oman and Kuwait as favored choices. Infantino recently visited both countries, where he discussed the idea, according to people with knowledge of the talks.Infantino has pushed an expansion of the World Cup at every opportunity in recent years, despite setbacks along the way. He pulled the issue from the agenda at last year’s FIFA Congress amid a backlash from various stakeholders.But Qatar’s posture — it has not publicly rejected an expanded World Cup, even as logistics almost certainly require bringing in partners — has emboldened Infantino to forge ahead to secure the expanded format, which has been adopted for the 2026 World Cup and beyond. Qatar 2022 organizers have said since last summer that they will reserve judgment on a 48-team tournament until a comprehensive study has been carried out.Infantino has vacillated when asked about the intensity of his push for a 48-team World Cup, veering between sporting justifications that center on growing interest in the sport and politically hopeful ones that suggest it could ease political tensions in the region.“There are tensions in this particular region, and it’s up to their respective leaders to deal with that, but maybe it’s easier to talk about a joint football project than more complicated things,” Infantino said in January. “If it can help all the people in the Gulf and all the countries in the world develop football and bring a positive message to the world about football, then you should give it a try.”Kuwait and Oman have remained largely neutral during the Gulf crisis, which has been characterized by bitterness and often petty behavior between opposing countries. That enmity was laid bare at the recently completed Asian Cup, where Qatar routed host United Arab Emirates in a final that was played in a poisonous atmosphere and will be remembered for the scores of shoes and other types of footwear that rained down from the bleachers toward Qatar’s players as they celebrated goals in a 4-0 victory. With flights blocked between the countries, Qatari players traveled to the tournament via Oman, while its fans were largely barred from attending.The travel restrictions are also a concern for World Cup organizers who had banked on thousands of supporters traveling to the event from Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E.There are several logistical hurdles to clear for an expanded tournament. FIFA officials have ruled that Qatar, smaller in size than Connecticut, won’t be able to absorb the additional games, and now must decide if neighboring countries possess infrastructure that meets its exacting demands.
Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. Also, we’re following breaking news about the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines jet, which killed the more than 150 people aboard. Boeing identified the plane as a 737 MAX 8, the same model that crashed in October in Indonesia. 1. 47 months.The sentence for Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, struck many as lenient, compared with the 19 to 24 years recommended under sentencing guidelines. Mr. Manafort, above in 2017, had perpetrated a decade-long, multimillion-dollar fraud scheme, but Judge T.S. Ellis said he lived “an otherwise blameless life.”This week, a judge in federal court in Washington will sentence Mr. Manafort on two conspiracy charges, which carry a maximum penalty of five years each. Michael Flynn, Mr. Trump’s former national security adviser, will also be sentenced this week.And Michael Cohen, the president’s former fixer and personal lawyer, sued the Trump Organization for refusing to pay him $1.9 million in legal costs. We also obtained six checks from Mr. Trump to Mr. Cohen that show how the president tried to prevent alleged sexual misconduct from going public.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. House Democrats tried to put to rest an uproar over Representative Ilhan Omar’s remarks, seen by some as anti-Semitic, with a bill condemning hate.The scandal overshadowed the passing of a comprehensive reform bill — dismantling voting barriers, limiting money in politics and imposing stricter ethics rules on federal officials. Above, Ms. Omar at a news conference for the reform bill with Speaker Nancy Pelosi.In last week’s will-they-or-won’t-they 2020 developments: John Hickenlooper, a two-time Colorado governor, is running for president. Former Vice President Joe Biden is 95 percent sure he is, too. The leading Democratic candidates have largely broken with consensus-driven politics and embraced progressive ideas. Here’s what that means for moderates.Check our candidate tracker for updates on the crowded presidential field.____3. The southern border is experiencing a “humanitarian catastrophe,” according to Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary.She urged Congress to support the president’s border wall, although it was not clear how that would solve the humanitarian crisis. Her testimony came as the number of migrants crossing the border without authorization reached an 11-year high in February. Above, migrants in Penitas, Tex., turning themselves in to Border Patrol agents in February.
The spectacle of Julian Assange, bearded and haggard, resisting arrest while London police officers dragged him through the street, punctuated the end of seven confounding years inside the Ecuadorean Embassy, where he lived with his cat in a small corner room as the world’s most famous self-proclaimed political refugee.Mr. Assange, 47, has long fashioned himself as a crusader for revealing secrets. The internet group he founded, WikiLeaks, published caches of classified American government communications, as well as emails hacked by Russian intelligence clearly intended to damage the presidential candidacy of Hillary Clinton.Though arrested Thursday morning by the British for skipping bail, Mr. Assange was immediately charged in the United States for conspiracy to hack a government computer.To supporters, Mr. Assange was a martyr and champion of free speech. To the United States government, he was a pariah and a  lackey of the Kremlin. But it was the hardened opinion of Ecuador’s government that perhaps mattered most.He had become an unwanted houseguest.At the tiny red-brick embassy, he continued to run his internet group, conducted news conferences before hundreds of fawning admirers from a balcony, rode his skateboard in the halls, and played host to a parade of visitors, including Lady Gaga and Pamela Anderson, a rumored lover who brought vegan sandwiches.On Thursday, Ms. Anderson sent out a batch of Twitter messages attacking the arrest as a “vile injustice” and called Britain and the United States “devils and liars and thieves.”In interviews with The New York Times in 2016, as part of a long look at his ties to Russia, Mr. Assange denied any link to Russian intelligence, in particular regarding the leaked Democratic emails. Mrs. Clinton and the Democrats were “whipping up a neo-McCarthyist hysteria about Russia,” he said. There is “no concrete evidence” that what WikiLeaks publishes comes from intelligence agencies, he said, even as he indicated that he would happily accept such material.Small as they were, Mr. Assange’s living quarters at the embassy, close to the lavish self-indulgence of Harrods, the famous department store, did not cramp his desire to remain in the limelight.Mr. Assange had an office equipped with a bed, sunlamp, phone, computer, kitchenette, shower, treadmill and bookshelves. Three years ago, one person familiar with the setup called it “a gas station with two attendants.”Vaughan Smith, who had been a longtime supporter of Mr. Assange and helped put up his bail money, said that “Julian’s a big bloke, with big bones, and he fills the room physically and intellectually.”“It’s a tiny embassy with a tiny balcony,” he added, “small, hot and with not great air flow, and it must be jolly difficult for everyone there.”But from there, Mr. Assange for years held court for admirers and famous curiosity seekers, among them the soccer star Eric Cantona, and Nigel Farage, the pro-Brexit radio host and former head of U.K. Independence Party.Still, Mr. Assange’s isolation was wearing on him, a friend said on Thursday, especially the long, lonely weekends in an essentially empty embassy he could not leave.Even his friends have described him as difficult, a narcissist with an outsized view of his importance and a disinterest in mundane matters like personal hygiene.
Note: Students 13 and older are invited to comment here. Adults should post their comments elsewhere on NYTimes.com.On Tuesday, federal prosecutors charged 50 people in a brazen scheme to buy spots in the freshman classes at Yale, Stanford and other big name schools. Have you heard about the scandal?Watch the one-minute video above to learn more about the indictment. What is your reaction to what you know so far?In “College Admissions Scandal: Actresses, Business Leaders and Other Wealthy Parents Charged,” Jennifer Medina, Katie Benner and Kate Taylor write:Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— What is your reaction to the college admissions cheating scandal? What details in the article did you find the most shocking and why? Are you surprised that something like this happened in the United States? Why or why not?— Who do you think should be held responsible for these crimes and how so?— The authors write: “The charges also underscored how college admissions have become so cutthroat and competitive that some have sought to break the rules.” Do you agree? What do you think this case tells us about the college admissions process today?— In a recent Opinion column, Frank Bruni argues that what these parents did is not all that different from the lengths to which many wealthy families will go to secure college admission for their children:What is your reaction to Mr. Bruni’s claim? Do you think the college admissions process is rigged to favor the wealthy? Do you think it is fair? Why or why not?— What message does this scandal send to high school students who intend to go to college? What is your biggest takeaway from it?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.
PARIS/KIEV — Flanked by rock musicians wearing yellow overalls and black t-shirts with skulls on them, Ukraine's President Petro Poroshenko pumped his fist, danced to the music and waved to supporters outside a soccer stadium in Kiev on Sunday.Standing on a stage filled with young people, he sent a message to his absent challenger, the comedian Volodymyr Zelenskiy, ahead of a presidential election run-off on April 21. "I am pleased that so many young people are with us today. Volodymyr Oleksandrovych, you hear the voice of Kiev, the voice of Ukraine, its youth. The youth is with us. The youth is the driving force of our state," he said on Sunday. Poroshenko has rebooted his campaign after Zelenskiy won nearly twice as many votes as him in the first round of the election on March 31, reaching out especially to younger voters disillusioned with corruption and the slow pace of change.The president apologized for past mistakes like installing business cronies to high office, promised to be more transparent in communicating decisions and pledged to bring more young people onto his staff if voters gave him another chance.At stake is the leadership of a country on the frontline of the West's standoff with Russia following the 2014 annexation of Crimea and the outbreak of a Kremlin-backed insurgency in eastern Ukraine that has killed 13,000 people.If elected, Zelenskiy has promised to keep Ukraine on a pro-Western course, pursue reforms and tackle corruption. Investors view him as something of an unknown quantity but his team has tried to assure them he will keep the country's loan program with the International Monetary Fund on track.In an interview with Reuters on Friday, Poroshenko said his strategy for the first round was reminding Ukrainians to be proud of their country and not listen to Russian depictions of its neighbor as a failed state.Doing so allowed him to trumpet achievements like securing visa-free travel for Ukrainians to European Union countries, strengthening the army and helping establish a national Orthodox church independent from the Russian clergy.But for the second round, he has struck a more contrite tone with voters while still painting Zelenskiy as a buffoonish populist."First of all, some people are disappointed. And we should open their heart, we should knock on their doors, we should deliver the information that 'look, we hear what you mean. We understand what you need,'" Poroshenko said.    "Don't believe populists, don't believe in the simple decision to the complicated question. May I remind you, we are the country in a state of war," he said onboard his plane between whistle-stop visits to Berlin and Paris.Poroshenko has also sought to shore up his reformist credentials. He rolled out a long-awaited special court to try corruption cases and fired a regional governor accused of incompetence.Asked if he had more surprises up his sleeve before the second round, Poroshenko replied: "You consider launching an anti-corruption court as a surprise? I think this is a part of my program."The answer to your question would be definitely 'yes'. I have some surprise for the last week," he said, declining to specify. "Otherwise it wouldn't be a surprise."
REYKJAVIK, Iceland — When it comes to print advertising, most high-end watch manufacturers go for the traditional: a product close-up and maybe a posed scene of gift-giving or sporting skill.Not JS Watch Company.One of its ’40s-style photo ads has its 69-year-old master watchmaker and charismatic frontman, Gilbert O. Gudjonsson, peering through a watchmaker’s eyepiece while his three business colleagues, clad in matching rubber swim caps, gawk at a statuesque bathing beauty beside a swimming pool.In another, the colleagues are aviation mechanics, stunned by an attractive flight attendant. Mr. Gudjonsson? He’s too busy inspecting a map to notice.Why would an atelier that has earned critical acclaim for its mechanical timepieces, made of Swiss movements and German parts, have an ad campaign that is the equivalent of an exaggerated stage wink?It’s because Mr. Gudjonsson and his colleagues — Grimkell Sigurthorsson, Sigurdur Gilbertsson and Julius Heidarsson — believe in watchmaking with a sense of humor.“Yes, we are watchmakers, but we are always having fun here,” said Mr. Gudjonsson, who once danced through Reykjavik dressed as an astronaut to promote Arc-Tic Iceland, a line of waterproof quartz watches created by the atelier.The business occupies a space on Laugavegur, a popular Reykjavik shopping street where tourists browse fisherman’s sweaters and sample grilled puffin. Visitors will often find Mr. Gudjonsson behind a door labeled “Probably the world’s smallest watch manufacturer,” in a narrow showroom decorated with vintage wall clocks.He has been fixing, selling or assembling watches since he was 16. “I never have to be in an office or use a computer — and I never want to,” he said.Occupying just 25 square meters, or 270 square feet, the showroom has a tiny work area tucked at the rear, so it could well be among the world’s smallest ateliers. In any case, some big names — including Tom Cruise, Ben Stiller and Yoko Ono — own its mechanical timepieces.Even the Dalai Lama has one. “He loves watches; he collects them,” Mr. Gudjonsson said. The local chapter of Friends of Tibet presented the watch during the Buddhist leader’s 2009 visit to Iceland. “When they gave it to him, he said watches are his only weakness.”Each year, the atelier produces about 500 watches. Mr. Gudjonsson assembles them in the work space, often with the help of Mr. Gilbertsson, his son — although Mr. Gilbertsson says he frequently seeks refuge from the atelier’s festive atmosphere at a second JS workshop nearby.The JS line has 14 collections, each with an Icelandic theme. One added last year was a 300-piece limited edition celebrating the Icelandic soccer team’s first FIFA World Cup spot and the smallest country by population ever to qualify for competition. (The team was eliminated after a loss to Croatia.)Some watch blogs and reviews criticized the design as taking the soccer theme too far — with a soccer ball engraved on the crown and a red 12 on the dial as a nod to fans, collectively considered the team’s 12th member — and the company for touting a niche timepiece as a dress watch at a luxury price of 2,418 euros ($2,748).“But not everyone is a collector,” Jason Swire, author of “Timely Advice” and a writer for Ablogtowatch.com, wrote in an email. (Mr. Swire said he used news releases to critique the watch.) “A lot of consumers prefer to own a single ‘nice’ watch and wear it for all occasions, and for that demographic a half-sporty, half-dressy watch makes a lot of sense.”
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — This year’s Miami Open is about 20 miles north of its previous home on Key Biscayne, but the tournament’s cultural epicenter is unmoved. It’s still somewhere thousands of miles to the south.Because there is no tournament of its caliber in Mexico, the Caribbean, or Central and South America, the Miami Open has developed into the de facto Latin American Slam, drawing fans from the region and its diasporas, transforming this Florida fixture into a virtual homecoming for Latino players.“It’s really nice to have the support,” said Leonardo Mayer, an Argentine. “It’s almost like playing in Buenos Aires.”The top South American player, Juan Martín del Potro of Argentina, missed this year’s tournament because of a knee injury, but fans had to change only one letter in their customary cheer for him in order to root for his compatriot Federico Delbonis, who took a set off top-ranked Novak Djokovic on Sunday. Instead of “Olé, olé, olé, olé! Delpo, Delpo!” they chanted, “Delbo, Delbo!”Even away from the court, the Miami area’s large Latino population affects the experience of playing in the tournament. Delbonis said he appreciated being able to buy yerba mate leaves in Miami to make his favorite beverage; for most events, he has to travel with his own supply.“Every time I come here I feel like I want to be here, I want to live here,” he said. “When I got to the court today, I heard a lot of Argentinians speaking Spanish, cheering in Spanish, and you feel that energy they give you. They give you confidence, and you feel it inside. It’s good for your game to be more happy on court.”Monica Puig, who in 2016 won Puerto Rico’s first Olympic gold medal, had vocal support from many Puerto Rican fans in her first-round match on Wednesday, when she lost to Wang Xiyu. She said regretted not being able to play more matches throughout the season in front of that crowd, which included her father.“Having that Latin American feel here, just buzzing all over the place, it’s really special,” said Puig, the only Latin American woman ranked in the top 100 in singles.Even fans from Latin American countries that are not represented among the players make their presence felt. After Fabio Fognini of Italy defeated Guido Andreozzi of Argentina on Friday, a woman unfurled a large Paraguayan flag.Latin American reporters travel to the Miami Open in droves, with 24 representatives of Argentine news media leading this year’s international contingent, according to the tournament.Though Latin American fans initially embraced the tournament organically, the event has begun marketing to them directly, including digital advertising in South America in both Spanish and Portuguese, as well as on Spanish-language websites in South Florida. (While Latin food and music can be found on the grounds, all the signs at the Miami Open are in English.)Players from the United States have to adjust to this rare home tournament where the crowds may not tip in their favor. Pablo Cuevas of Uruguay recalled being stunned in 2011 when fans chanted his country’s name as he upset Andy Roddick, the defending champion and American star, on the stadium court of Key Biscayne.In one of the last matches played at the old venue in 2018, the American John Isner, the eventual champion, had little support when he met del Potro in the semifinals.“The fans were great, but it was not 50-50,” Isner said, smiling. “There were a lot of Argentinian flags, that country loves their sport, loves their soccer and their tennis. To see all the flags in the crowd, it was a very, very cool atmosphere.”Many other non-Latin American players similarly relish the passionate crowds.
DOHA/LONDON — Qatar filed lawsuits on Monday against three banks, accusing them of causing billions of dollars of damage to its economy by what it called overseas currency manipulation in the wake of an Arab boycott against Qatar in 2017.The cases, filed in London and New York, name Luxembourg-based Banque Havilland, the United Arab Emirates' First Abu Dhabi Bank (FAB) and Saudi Arabia's Samba Bank, according to filings seen by Reuters and a statement from Qatar's government communications office.First Abu Dhabi Bank declined to comment, while Banque Havilland and Samba Bank did not immediately respond to requests for comment.In the case, Qatar alleges Banque Havilland devised a plan to weaken the country's riyal currency on key composite indices by submitting thousands of "fictitious and depreciated" quotes, according to the court filings."But the quotes were phoney, as FAB, Samba Bank, and others repeatedly refused to transact with counterparties at the prices they were quoting in public," the filings stated. The lawsuits are the latest fallout in a protracted Gulf row that began in 2017 when Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt imposed an economic boycott on Qatar in 2017, accusing it of supporting Islamist militants and Iran.Qatar, a small Gulf state but major gas exporter, denies the charges and says the boycott is an attempt to impinge on its sovereignty.The currency manipulation was intended to "deplete Qatar's financial reserves so that it would be unable to complete its preparations to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup games, and would be forced to share the games with Saudi Arabia or the UAE," the filings stated. UAE sports chief Mohammed Khalfan al-Romaithi has said his country and other Gulf states could co-host an expanded World Cup 2022, a measure global soccer body FIFA is expected to vote on in June but which Qatar holds the final decision over. Qatar liquidated nearly $3 billion in U.S. treasury investments and drew down over $40 billion in foreign reserves after the alleged manipulation in a bid to support its currency, the filings stated.With more than $300 billion in central bank reserves and sovereign wealth fund assets, bankers say Qatar has sufficient financial firepower to block attacks on its currency.Its central bank began a probe into the alleged manipulation in late 2017 after it said unidentified banks were looking to attack the riyal by trading it between themselves offshore at artificially weak levels - to create an illusion Qatar's economy was crumbling."Qatar seeks to hold FAB, Samba Bank, and the unknown John Doe Defendants who conspired with them liable for the billions of dollars in damages that they have caused to Qatar, plus punitive damages and statutory interest," the filings stated.They added elsewhere that Qatar also sought to hold Banque Havilland similarly responsible. (Reporting by Eric Knecht and Dmitry Zhdannikov; Additional reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Dale Hudson and Mark Potter)
The Swiss watch brand Hublot, which has partnered with the likes of the FIFA World Cup and the Ferrari Formula One team, has announced that it will continue its role as official timekeeper of the Cricket World Cup, with the 2019 competition scheduled to start May 30.The event is sponsored by the International Cricket Council and held every four years — this year in England and Wales.Hublot’s previous high-profile sporting affiliations have put it in competition with more established watch brands, such as Rolex, Omega and Audemars Piguet, each of which has successfully used sports to raise brand awareness. Hublot was founded in 1980 and has been owned by LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton since 2008.Ricardo Guadalupe, Hublot’s chief executive, said that Hublot’s strategy was to invest in sports that have a global footprint and little, if any, association with other Swiss watch brands. In the past, Audemars Piguet had worked with Sachin Tendulkar and Ulysse Nardin with Yuvraj Singh, both Indian cricketers, but Hublot is the first to partner with the organizing council.“Cricket is virgin territory,” Mr. Guadalupe said in an interview during the announcement of the partnership at the brand’s Bond Street boutique in London.Mr. Guadalupe said cricket also would give Hublot a route to market in targeted regions. “Cricket is huge in India,” he said. “There is potential to grow heavily in India and with Indians, who buy all over the world.”Cricket is India’s most popular sport. The national broadcaster Star India reported that its television coverage of the 2015 Cricket World Cup, also sponsored by Hublot, was watched by more than 600 million people in the country. (The 2019 Super Bowl had a domestic audience of 98.2 million, according to the research firm Nielsen.)“We’ve had double-digit growth in India since we got involved in cricket,” Mr. Guadalupe said, adding that this summer Hublot plans to open its first stand-alone boutique in Mumbai, India’s financial center and largest city, and is working on one in New Delhi.Mr. Guadalupe declined to disclose the cost of the I.C.C. partnership, but said that it was in the “single millions” of dollars and much less costly than Hublot’s soccer affiliations.As part of the cricket deal, Hublot had announced a 100-piece limited-edition watch, a version of its 45-millimeter Classic Fusion Chronograph that is scheduled for release on March 23. (Mr. Guadalupe said the 2,018-piece limited-edition connected watch that Hublot made for the 2018 World Cup sold out in four weeks.)Mr. Guadalupe also said that some top Hublot customers would be given a special experience at the Cricket World Cup, but that the reason for the partnership was to “build and shape the consumer of tomorrow.”
The Cannes Film Festival on Thursday unveiled a set of movies in contention for this year’s Palme d’Or. The American director Terrence Malick — who won in 2011 for “The Tree of Life” — is back with “A Hidden Life,” set during World War II. Films by Pedro Almodóvar of Spain and Ken Loach of Britain are also in the running.Quentin Tarantino’s “Once Upon a Time in Hollywood” could join the lineup if it’s completed in time, said the festival’s artistic director, Thierry Frémaux, at a news conference in Paris. Mr. Frémaux said he had seen most of it, and it was “magnificent.”The festival opens on May 14 with Jim Jarmusch’s zombie movie “The Dead Don’t Die” and ends on May 25. There are 19 movies in the race so far, though Mr. Frémaux said there were likely to be additions.“You will see women directors, first films, Americans, zombies, genetic manipulations,” Mr. Frémaux said, adding that the titles in the competition would also feature “painters, singers, cops, parasites, violent mafiosos.”Screening out of the official competition is “Rocketman,” a biopic directed by Dexter Fletcher, whose world premiere will bring the superstar singer-songwriter Elton John to the Cannes red carpet.Another out-of-competition title is the documentary “Diego Maradona,” focusing on the Argentine soccer player and directed by Asif Kapadia, whose Amy Winehouse documentary drew critical acclaim.This year’s lineup is a mix of Cannes veterans — Marco Bellocchio of Italy, Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne of Belgium — and first-timers to the competition, such as all four of the female directors selected: Jessica Hausner, Céline Sciamma, Mati Diop and Justine Triet.[The directors Barry Jenkins and Claire Denis on filmmaking and rising stars like Mati Diop.] Thomas Sotinel, a film critic for the French newspaper Le Monde, said in a telphone interview that he saw their inclusion as a positive step in Cannes’ efforts to achieve a gender balance.“Four out of 19 is a little timid, statistically speaking, but it’s one more than last year, so there’s progress,” he said, noting that the four were all directors “at the start of their careers.”At the moment, there were “very few established female directors” in world cinema, besides Jane Campion or Claire Denis, he added. The only way to bring in more women was to bring in up-and-comers. “That’s how we’ll see renewal,” Mr. Sotinel said.Last year, the Cannes Film Festival missed out on Alfonso Cuarón’s “Roma” because it was a Netflix production. “Roma,” which premiered at the Venice Film Festival, went on to win the top Venice prize as well as three Academy Awards.The reason for the exclusion was that Cannes requires all competition titles to be released in French movie theaters. The rule is part of a system of subsidies and regulations with which France protects its homegrown film industry and preserves its nationwide network of cinemas.Mr. Frémaux said the rule remained in place, though he and the festival management had had regular conversations with Netflix, including one earlier this week. He said Netflix had no movies ready that would have been potentially eligible for the competition.The president of the festival, Pierre Lescure, told reporters at the Paris news conference that the French film industry would soon show more flexibility and that the mandated delay between a movie’s theatrical release and its release by a streaming service, currently up to three years, could be changed. Depending on a movie’s style and budget, that window could be narrowed, he explained.
SUNDAY PUZZLE — Natan Last has a tremendous record for introducing elegant new entries (how had we lived without CAFFEINE FIX?) and a sharp eye for the type of wordplay that sneaks up on you (and, if you’re me, keeps right on going, just overhead). This is one of those puzzles. The solve is greatly enhanced by today’s constructor notes, so glean what details you can from Mr. Last — he mentors, and teaches people how to do this stuff, and has the type of loopy and flexible mind that slots together intricate bits and pieces to form a cohesive whole. It’s quite amazing.We’ve had a run of prominent Sunday themes that underpin an entire big grid. A bright puzzle like this, where one has to tease the tendrils of the theme out during the entire solve, is a lot of fun and a little bit of a palate cleanser.Much inscrutability today in that tendriled theme — if you don’t find what you’re looking for here, move on down a section.7A: A heartbreaking state of affairs, in the days of waning print circulation and instant feedback, is the lonely journalist sitting in the dark with his or her analytics panel open anxiously watching the CLICKS. There’s no market for quality over quantity anymore. (All of you are quality clicks, friends. High-class clicks.)71A: I don’t know if you’ve spent time in Louisiana or otherwise had the opportunity to “fais do-do,” or make a party happen, but if you have, then “makin’ groceries” probably sounded CAJUN to you. 72A: These are both astrological signs and AUTOS. If you happened to wonder if there was ever a “Scorpio” car, there was! It was gorgeous.2D: C.B. radios and their lingo go back about a century, and members of the “10 code,” common or relevant phrases that are coded to the number 10 with another number, were used by the police in the 1930s to make communication easier. It makes sense that TEN ONE would establish, right off the bat, that communication via the radio was staticky, faint or otherwise difficult to understand. Intentionally or not, the crossing here with SHE BEAR was cute because that could be a female cop. If a SHE BEAR in a plain brown wrapper takes your picture and turns on the bubble gum machine, you might be about to get a driving award.6D: The Nylons sang “The Lion Sleeps Tonight” and the Rayons sang “Do You Love Me.” Three makes a (highly synthetic) pattern; I always figured these bands were using the fabric names to be modern and slick, but the ORLONS apparently took their name as a spoof of a popular group at their high school, the Cashmeres. This was not the Cashmeres, by the way, who also had hits in the 60s.41D: Who else had “egg roll” at first? White House propaganda. If you went straight to EGG HUNT, maybe you thought of the Easter beagle.77D: After a 40-plus year absence, this is the second appearance in a few months of GAY PAREE, which looks so odd but was, as spelled, the title of a 1926 Broadway musical revue, and also in a title of a Cole Porter song for the 1953 show “Can-Can.”93D: This might have been the crunchiest “straight” clue today, heralding the 21st-century debut of OTOMI, or Hñäñhü, people of Central Mexico. I had never put a name to these marvelous textiles, but the Otomi are known for beautiful embroidery.There is a fairly well-known sporting event on telly this evening, so your minds may have been tuned to that frequency already, and we have a theme today that revolves around sportsmanship, or rather lack thereof, in four major athletic leagues — M.L.B. baseball, N.F.L. football, FIFA soccer and N.B.A. basketball. We seem to be missing N.H.L. hockey, probably because it’s difficult to play attempted murder for laughs, and that is what it takes to get thrown out of a hockey match (or so I thought — more on that later).There are three layers to each sports “play,” we’ll call them. The first two are codependent so we’ll address them together.First, there are four italicized clues, each linked to another entry — these are at 28A (linking to 102A), 48A (linking to 105A), 64A (linking to 87A) and 86D (linking to 65A). Each of these italicized clues refers to a star from one of the above sports leagues, getting “ejected,” or thrown out, of the entry that’s linked.Second, we have those linked clues, referred to above. Each is straightforward, but too tricky to come up with, at least for me, without a ton of crossing letters filled in. Even then, though, there’s a problem. 
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump visited Alabama in the wake of destructive tornadoes there.“You saw things that you wouldn’t believe,” he told reporters in a neighborhood gravely damaged on Sunday by the storm outbreak, which left at least 23 people dead. He also visited a church serving as the hub of a volunteer relief effort, where he signed Bibles, pictured above.Back in Washington, his administration lost two advisers. Bill Shine, the White House communications director and former Fox News executive, resigned, and will work for President Trump’s re-election campaign. The Air Force secretary, Heather Wilson, said she would resign to become president at the University of Texas at El Paso. She is one of the highest-ranking women at the Pentagon.The president tweeted about both resignations, which he said were amicable, as well as Michael Cohen. He asserted that his former lawyer asked him directly for a pardon and was denied, which contradicts Mr. Cohen’s testimony._____2. A weak monthly jobs report clouded the economic picture.Just 20,000 new U.S. jobs were added — a small fraction of the 175,000 that analysts had expected. It was the weakest jobs report since September 2017. Still, wage growth and jobless figures are promising signs. Some saw the jobs news as a fluke, and others a troubling omen. Above, a worker in Lewiston, Me., helps to weatherproof a home.The report may have been tinged with aftereffects from the government shutdown. And one possibility is that the economy, which has added 20 million jobs during a decades-long expansion, is close to exhausting the supply of workers._____3. The U.S. women’s soccer team sued U.S. Soccer, accusing it of “institutionalized gender discrimination,” just three months before the Women’s World Cup.The discrimination, the athletes said, affects not only their paychecks but also where they play and how often, how they train, the medical treatment and coaching they receive, and even how they travel to matches. Above, the team at a tournament last week.It was a sudden and significant escalation of their yearslong fight over pay equity and working conditions. The team, which includes some of the world’s most famous female athletes, has been a leading force in women’s sports for more than a generation._____
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. British business braces for impact, President Trump gives an interview to The Times, and European teenagers become a protest vanguard. Here’s the latest: Companies across Britain, faced with confusion around the country’s pending departure from the E.U., have been stockpiling products, making backup plans and exploring new shipping routes. International banks are shifting thousands of jobs from Britain to the Continent.“It’s meant extra resources, extra overtime, to get it done,” said one executive. “It’s incredibly annoying.”By the numbers: Britain’s economy is 2.3 percent smaller than it would have been if voters in 2016 had opted to remain in the E.U., according to one research institution. And investment in the auto sector was found to have plunged by almost 50 percent in 2018.What’s next? Parliament remains mired in disagreement and the E.U. disinclined to reopen matters. Sixty days out from the March 29 deadline to leave the bloc, uncertainty is spreading.Come again? As a BBC anchor ended an evening news program by saying, “Theresa May says she intends to go back to Brussels to renegotiate her Brexit deal,” the screen showed grainy images of World War II planes that appeared to be Spitfires. Watch here. President Trump told our reporters in an 85-minute interview on Thursday that negotiations with Congress over his border wall were a “waste of time” and that he would proceed without lawmakers. This weekend he will retreat to Mar-a-Lago — his gilded club where all is well.Russia investigation: Mr. Trump denied an account by his former lawyer, Michael Cohen, that late in the 2016 presidential campaign he was still discussing a project to build a Trump-branded skyscraper in Moscow. He also claimed that his lawyers had been reassured by the outgoing deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, that the president himself is not a target of the special counsel, Robert Mueller. Here are five takeaways from what Mr. Trump said.Trade: Mr. Trump spoke immediately after wrapping up a session with China’s visiting vice premier in which the president said they had made progress toward defusing the trade war. In other Washington news: The Senate voted to pass nonbinding bipartisan legislation that objects to Mr. Trump’s withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan and Syria, the second time in two months that the Senate has rebuked the president’s foreign policy.“Police investigators, tax officers, pro-government tabloids” have become the hammers of President Aleksandar Vucic and his populist, conservative Serbian Progressive Party. That was the testimony to the Council in Europe in November of Nebojsa Zelenovic, the mayor of Sabac, one of the few places not controlled by the governing party.
ROYAN, France — Two years after a clandestine impromptu training session on the hills of Tehran, Sadaf Khadem will become the first Iranian woman to contest an official boxing fight, hoping to lead the way in the Islamic Republic.The bout will take place in western France on Saturday after the 24-year-old met with Frenchman Mahyar Monshipour, an Iranian-born former super bantamweight world champion."In 2017, I went to Iran for a promotional event and I ended up organizing a public training session on the hills overlooking Tehran. About 35 people showed up, and there were six women," Monshipour told Reuters."She contacted me on social media to ask me to make her box but I told her it was not possible. Then about a couple of months ago the Iranian federation opened the door for women boxing and we asked them to set up an event. "But it became apparent that it would not be possible because they wanted a female coach, female referee... so with the help of the Sports ministry we made her come to France."Next week Khadem will return to Iran, where Monshipour expects her to be met with 'popular jubilation'. He will, however, travel back with her, just in case, to a country where women have started to take off their head scarves in a peaceful protest against the compulsory hijab."If she ends up in custody, I will not let her down," he said. Khadem took up boxing four years ago, being compelled to train in private fitness rooms since public boxing facilities are reserved for men. In Iran, women were allowed to attend a men's soccer game for the first last October."It is easier for wrestling and weightlifting because they are more in our culture," Khadem told Reuters after a training session on Thursday. BREAK THE DAMSome women fight but the bouts are illegal and being held in Turkey with no medical insurance. In France, Khadem trained at the National Institute of Sport and was handed a French license to practice and fight.For the first time she trained among men, and she burst into tears at the end of a session, overwhelmed by her emotions."My parents were worried when I started boxing but they saw I was really loving it so now they are supporting me. I'm now steaming ahead," said Khadem.
BRUSSELS — European summits, jaded Englishmen have said, are like soccer: they go into extra-time, and the Germans always win.For the journalists covering them, it is like commentating live on a match played behind closed doors: only partial information leaks out from self-promoting rival players, and even when it’s over, the final score is often far from clear.Another high-stakes summit coming up on Wednesday is likely to be a replay of the same fixture 10 days ago, when British Prime Minister Theresa May sat in late-night talks with fellow EU leaders trying to delay Brexit until June.Hundreds of journalists were gathered in the cavernous atrium of the Justus Lipsius Building, home to the European Council of EU national leaders.For Reuters, the game starts days before such summits begin. Reporters tap their sources in capitals across Europe and EU institutions in Brussels, trying to work out who wants what from the meeting.When the leaders file in, talking to cameras without translators in the 24 EU languages, our multilingual team relays their words instantly.Once they're in, the summit match starts in earnest.Last month, May began the closed-door meeting by explaining her plans and taking questions from peers. She was looking for an extension to the Brexit deadline to give her more time to try to win backing from Britain’s parliament for her plan to exit the European Union.The first sign of a story was that May's presentation before she had to leave the room lasted well over an hour, much longer than previous such sessions. But was that good or bad for Theresa May?One UK government source told us it had gone "OK". But our sources among EU officials and national diplomats made clear in hushed conversations and text messages that it had gone "very badly" for her indeed.A flurry of contradictory messages and rumors began to emerge. This is when reporters need to hold their nerve, when the urge to be quick can compete with the need to be right.As the other 27 discussed May's pitch among themselves, French President Emmanuel Macron was pushing to end the agony and get Britain out almost immediately. German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged caution. Europe's power couple huddled with summit chair Donald Tusk, drafting and redrafting a response to Britain.Outside the room, Bulgaria's ambassador tweeted a picture, worthy of Caravaggio, of envoys crowding round one version on a screen. (https://twitter.com/DTzantchev/status/1108807850397261826)Hours later, as reporters started preparing for yet another all-nighter, Reuters got word from upstairs of the breakthrough: a two-stage approach that might mean Brexit in May, or April. First word from one source a little after 10 p.m. meant rapid checks with others.At nearly midnight, all was confirmed in a flurry of news conferences. By 2 a.m. our final stories were published, a much earlier finish than some EU summits.
PARIS — President Emmanuel Macron of France said on Sunday that he wanted to create a national day of commemoration for the 1994 genocide in Rwanda, which has been a longstanding source of tension between the two countries.Mr. Macron said in a statement that he wanted to create a national day of remembrance on April 7, the date 25 years ago that Rwanda’s Hutu majority began systematically massacring members of the Tutsi minority, leaving an estimated 800,000 to one million people dead.“On this day of commemoration for the 25th anniversary of the Tutsi genocide in Rwanda, the president of the republic expresses his solidarity with the Rwandan people and his compassion for the victims and their families,” the statement said.Rwanda, led by President Paul Kagame, has long accused France of complicity in the genocide and of helping some of the perpetrators escape, poisoning ties between the two countries, even though relations have warmed since Mr. Macron’s election in 2017.France has been accused of providing weapons and military training to the Hutu-dominated government in the years that led up to the genocide, and of failing to prevent or even supporting the massacres when they started, despite the presence of French peacekeeping soldiers.Ibuka France, a group that advocates remembrance of the genocide, praised Mr. Macron’s announcement. Marcel Kabanda, the head of the group, told Agence France-Presse that Ibuka France had suggested the idea in a meeting with Mr. Macron on Friday.Mr. Macron did not say what the day of commemoration would entail or how he would create it. He could proceed by decree, or have his government present a bill in Parliament, where his party has a majority in the more powerful lower house.France has admitted mistakes in how it handled the killings but has always denied the accusations of complicity. After meeting with survivors and members of Ibuka France on Friday, Mr. Macron ordered a two-year government study of France’s role in the genocide.The study will be led by a commission of eight historians and researchers. They will have access to official French archives covering the period between 1990 and 1994 in order to “analyze the role and involvement of France” during the massacres and to help shape French school curriculums, Mr. Macron said.In Rwanda, a week of commemorations started on Sunday, as did 100 days of mourning for victims of the genocide. Mr. Kagame laid a wreath and lit a flame at the Gisozi memorial site in Kigali, the capital. Over 250,000 people are believed to be buried at the site.A remembrance walk was scheduled to go from the Rwandan Parliament building to the national soccer stadium. Several heads of state were expected to attend, but not Mr. Macron, who sent Hervé Berville, a member of France’s Parliament and survivor of the Rwandan genocide, as his representative.Mr. Berville, 29, was evacuated by the French Army at the age of 4 and adopted by a couple in Brittany. He was part of the wave of first-time politicians elected to the lower house of Parliament in 2017 for Mr. Macron’s party.“It is both a source of pride and a great responsibility to go there to represent France,” Mr. Berville told RFI radio on Tuesday.Mr. Macron also announced last week that more resources would be granted to the French judicial authorities who are working to identify and prosecute those suspected of perpetrating the genocide, some of whom fled to France after the violence ended.
Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union has provoked months of bitter division, but on Friday there was a break in the routine: an outbreak of affection and good will.In a tenderly written missive to Britons, more than two dozen leading figures in Germany — including Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, the favorite to become the country’s next chancellor — described their admiration for many things British, including its tea and beer, and their sorrow over the impending divorce.“After the horrors of the Second World War, Britain did not give up on us,” said the open letter published in The Times, the British newspaper favored by the establishment. It emphasized Germany’s appreciation that it had been welcomed back as a sovereign nation after the conflict and as a European power.“This we, as Germans, have not forgotten and we are grateful,” the letter went on, concluding that “Britons should know: From the bottom of our hearts, we want them to stay.”Norbert Röttgen, head of the German Parliament’s Committee on Foreign Affairs, who co-wrote the letter, said the signers decided they needed to say something after this week’s defeat of the British prime minister’s Brexit proposal.“The time was ripe to make sure that we raise our voice, and that we try to make it a German voice, to let the Brits know that while we fully respect what they decide, we do consider it a European affair,” Mr. Röttgen said. “We wanted to say what we feel, to express our convictions and our deep emotions.”[Read about an unlikely Brexit star, and villain: the speaker of the British House of Commons.]The intervention comes at a critical moment in Britain following the crushing rejection on Tuesday of Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan for withdrawal from the European Union, or Brexit. There is growing speculation that the deadlock could lead to a general election or a second referendum that might reverse the whole idea.It is unclear whether a lovebomb from figures as varied as the Airbus chief, Thomas Enders, and the punk rock singer Campino will have much impact. But at least one signatory to the letter commands some name recognition in Britain: Jens Lehmann, the former goalkeeper of Germany’s national soccer team.Behind the initiative lies concern in Berlin over the prospect that Britain may leave the European Union without an agreement, with economically damaging consequences for the entire continent.While the European Union — and especially France — took a tough line in negotiating the withdrawal, Britain and Germany have often agreed on economic issues in Brussels. But Brexit is destined to change the internal balance within the European Union, removing a country that has often been useful to Berlin politically and a big financial contributor to the bloc.Britons’ reaction to the letter was mixed, with some commenting on its folksy focus on the country’s “legendary black humor,” drinking tea with milk, Christmas pantomime and driving on the left.As enemies in two world wars in the 20th century, the two countries have a complicated relationship. Germany’s affection for Britain is not always reciprocated, despite widespread respect for the German postwar economic miracle and its modern-day success.Sporting rivalry is particularly fierce in soccer, where the record has at times been so grim for England that Gary Lineker, the TV host and former England international player, once described it as a game where “22 men chase a ball for 90 minutes and at the end, the Germans always win.”Whether the intervention will help or hinder the pro-Europeans in Britain’s Brexit debate is a moot point, as the British are prickly about anything that could be construed as outside interference in political discussions.
The shaky video clips of Julian Assange’s arrest flashed around the world on Thursday, the white-bearded prophet of the age of leaks being hauled by unsmiling security officers to a gray van marked Police.“We must resist!” he cried. “You can resist!” It was a scene that the very image-conscious Mr. Assange might appreciate: one man literally fighting the all-powerful state.It was also the latest — and surely not the last — dramatic turn in a career marked by both brilliant achievement and dubious judgment. Mr. Assange has long had a knack for celebrity, and as a tech-savvy, global, almost stateless figure, he captured the new influence the internet could give to individual citizens.[Read more about the arrest of Julian Assange.]His creation of WikiLeaks helped empower a generation of whistle-blowers and disgruntled insiders who could operate on an industrial scale, providing disclosures by the terabyte and enraging the powerful in many countries. WikiLeaks collaborated closely with major world publications, including The New York Times, in the release of secret records on the American-led wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and a quarter-million confidential State Department cables.But Mr. Assange has always elicited fervent reactions: He has been hailed as a hero of free information, or despised as a treacherous criminal worthy of death by drone — often depending on what WikiLeaks had recently been up to. Though he has always described himself as a journalist, he has been far too much of an activist to be satisfied with the role of neutral and fair-minded provider of information.He has proved a highly problematic, even embarrassing champion for the principles of press freedom and the public’s right to information, especially in recent years. For the past seven, he was hiding out at Ecuador’s tiny redbrick embassy in London, not just from American prosecutors, but also from Swedish sex-crime investigators, who eventually closed their case.Mr. Assange, the world’s most famous self-proclaimed political refugee, lived there with his cat in a small corner room. He continued to run WikiLeaks, conducted news conferences before hundreds of fawning admirers from a balcony, rode his skateboard in the halls and played host to a parade of visitors, including Lady Gaga and Pamela Anderson, a rumored lover who brought with her vegan sandwiches.The arrest came at the end of a meandering legal path that began in 2010, when the Justice Department announced it was investigating WikiLeaks. Obama administration officials eventually dropped the idea, persuaded by press advocates that prosecuting WikiLeaks would set a dangerous precedent because many mainstream news organizations regularly publish classified information.In 2016, some of Mr. Assange’s former American sympathizers turned sharply against him after he made WikiLeaks into an enthusiastic instrument of Russia’s intervention in the American presidential election, doling out hacked Democratic emails to maximize their political effect, campaigning against Hillary Clinton on Twitter and promoting a false cover story about the source of the leaks.That performance drew voluble praise from her opponent, Donald J. Trump, who regularly read from leaked Clinton campaign emails in his 2016 stump speeches and declared, “I love WikiLeaks.” But months later, while he was president, WikiLeaks posted a collection of classified documents on the C.I.A.’s hacking tools, and Mr. Trump’s first C.I.A. chief, Mike Pompeo, called Mr. Assange “a narcissist” and labeled the organization “a nonstate hostile intelligence service.”His words were a harbinger of the single charge of conspiracy to commit computer intrusion against Mr. Assange that the Justice Department unsealed on Thursday.In some ways, Mr. Assange, 47, has never fully shed the rebellious, secretive ways of the precocious Australian teenager with a complicated family background who, with two pals, formed a hacking collective called the International Subversives. In the 1997 book “Underground,” a lengthy account of the young hackers written by Suelette Dreyfus and crediting Mr. Assange as “researcher,” a hacker with the nickname Mendax clearly resembles the young Julian.Mendax found the small Australian town where Mr. Assange lived with his mother, Emerald, “dead boring,” the book says. “Sometimes Mendax went to school. Often he didn’t. The school system didn’t hold much interest for him.” A vulnerable computer network in Sydney, the book says, “was a far more interesting place to muck around in than the rural high school.”In 1991, at age 20, Mr. Assange was charged with a long list of hacking offenses, to which he pleaded guilty and got off with a fine and a warning. “There is just no evidence that there was anything other than sort of intelligent inquisitiveness and the pleasure of being able to — what’s the expression — surf through these various computers,” the judge said at his sentencing, according to an account in The New Yorker.
KNUTSFORD, England — That day, Raheem Sterling looked up, and tuned in. Ordinarily when he is on the field, he loses himself so completely in the game that the noise of the crowd becomes an indistinct murmur, each voice lost in the hum of tens of thousands.But as Sterling approached the touchline to collect the ball for a corner kick in Manchester City’s Premier League game at Chelsea on Dec. 8, something forced him to switch his focus.He remembers making eye contact with a handful of fans in the front row of the Matthew Harding Stand at Stamford Bridge. Like all players, and as one of his country’s best players, he is used to hostility, particularly away from home. But what he could see was different. It looked, to him, like hatred.“The way they were looking at me, I had to see where all this anger was coming from,” he said. “I was listening in to hear what they were saying.” What he picked up, he said, he dismissed immediately: “Nah, that can’t be what I heard.”Video suggested his suspicion was right. One fan, in particular, appeared to have screamed a racial obscenity at him. The consequences added credence: Not long after the game ended, Chelsea announced it had barred four fans from attending games, pending an investigation into whether Sterling had been racially abused. The incident was reported to the London police. It was neither Sterling’s first racist encounter — as a teenager, he once was head-butted by a stranger on a Liverpool street — nor the first time he had experienced racism in an English stadium. In his first match at Everton’s Goodison Park after joining Manchester City, he said, he was walking toward the tunnel when a boy with his father called him a “black something.”As he left Stamford Bridge that evening in December, though, Sterling, 24, kept churning over what he had heard, what had happened. By the time he returned to Manchester, he decided that it was “too much now.” He wanted to say something.He spent all night thinking of the best way to do it. He did some research, got his thoughts in order. The next morning, as he sat in the back seat of a car on the 30-minute drive from his home to Manchester City’s training facility, he composed a 207-word message to accompany his thoughts. It focused not just on what had happened at Stamford Bridge, but why. Sterling posted it, with two images, to his Instagram account.“I am not normally the person to talk a lot,” the message began. “But when I think I need my point to be heard I will speak up.”A few weeks ago, Sterling returned to visit friends near Wembley, the part of northwest London where he grew up. He remains intimately connected to the place: He said he was in discussions with the local council to find an appropriate site for a sporting and educational institute, somewhere to provide opportunities for children (and their parents) from backgrounds similar to his.It is a personal and, until now, a private thing, something he says is less his responsibility as a professional athlete and more an innate desire to “show light” to a new generation. He wants his story to give others like him hope.“Not just to be a footballer,” Sterling said, “but to do whatever they want to do.”It is not hard to find inspiration in Sterling’s rise. His story has long been crowbarred into the narrative often expected of athletes: the deprived upbringing, the triumph over adversity, that comforting fairy tale told of so many athletes in which greatness flowers best in soil left untended.His father was shot dead in Jamaica when he was 2. His mother moved to England in the hope of giving her children a better life. Sterling remembers her “fight to get jobs,” the long hours she put in, the days he and his sister would help her clean hotel rooms before school.Sterling has always been keen not to allow exaggerations to flourish, to correct any poetic license taken by those telling his story. In 2016, he told The Mail on Sunday that his childhood home was not in a “rough, rough” area; in a piece for The Players’ Tribune last year, he said that while his family never had much money, his mother always made sure he and his sister had what they needed.
DAKAR, Senegal — They sprint. They sweat. They squat to the ground and bounce backward. They sit side-by-side and lock arms for group situps. They dig trenches in the sand for stability, to get more out of each push up.And, then, when the rush-hour traffic really backs up and exhaust fumes pour across this little, sandy triangle of an outdoor gym bordered by a highway and two exit ramps, sometimes the athletes vomit.“Sports and pollution,” said Joseph Faye, a wrestling coach who was grappling with other young men there on a recent evening, “they don’t go together.”Increasingly in Dakar, where outdoor exercise is a way of life, the two are colliding.On any given evening, thousands of runners, wrestlers, soccer players and fitness fanatics take to the beaches and streets for a strenuous workout.Practically the whole city transforms into a California-like muscle beach with bodies grunting and panting and pushing themselves to extremes on any empty patch of land.Sprinters mount a lighthouse-topped hill or fly down the steps leading from a grand mosque. Body builders lift chunks of broken concrete and heave themselves up on a rusty metal rod stretched across two wooden poles.Backward exercising is a thing, with throngs of people squatting and sprinting in reverse.But with every breath, these exercisers are inhaling air that the World Health Organization considers dangerous. Dakar’s air exceeds by more than five times the limits set by the World Health Organization of the amount of small particles that when inhaled can damage health.The air in Dakar, with its windswept coastal roadway and waves lapping against craggy bluffs, sometimes can appear deceptively clear.Other times, especially this time of year when a dust storm rolls in and traffic backs up, it can feel like walking through a cloud of chalk dust after someone bangs two erasers together, inside an oven.“It’s a real problem for respiratory diseases,” said Nafissatou Oumar Toure Badiane, the chief of pulmonology at Fann University Hospital in Dakar, who noted that the number of childhood asthma cases at one of the city’s biggest hospitals had recently jumped.She estimated that a third of the population has some kind of lung ailment.And there are signs that air quality here is getting worse.Dakar is growing, having almost doubled in size in the past decade as people pour in from the countryside and nearby nations in search of jobs. Some of its five million inhabitants are farmers who have given up in the wake of chronic drought dating to the 70s.
AUGUSTA, GA — Tommy Fleetwood may already be one of golf's most recognisable players but the mop-topped Englishman is determined to be marked out as winner rather than for a great head of hair.Looking more like a member of Hall of Fame rock band Fleetwood Mac than the PGA Tour, the 28-year-old, with his scruffy beard and long locks spilling out from under a baseball cap, was easily distinguishable from the cookie cutter golfing crowd getting in some practice on Monday at Augusta National ahead of the Masters.Considering Fleetwood's PGA Tour resume does not yet include a title, he would not have drawn much attention had it not been for his "better to burn out than fade away" approach to tournament play which has amplified his rocker image.That "all in" attitude was on full display during the final round of the Players Championship last month when he was trailing Rory McIlroy by two strokes with two holes to play. Fleetwood attacked the pin on the infamous 17th island green and paid the price as his title hopes ended in a watery grave."I don't know why people would expect me to play for the middle of the green if I had a chance of catching Rory," Fleetwood told reporters. "Maybe that's my difference than some other people, I'm always going to play to win."Not that golf will ever define me as a person but I'm never going to look back on my career and say, oh, I finished third at the Players, that was a good week. Or, oh, I finished top five at the Masters, I made a couple of nice pars on the last to finish top five. "That's probably something I'll never say to my kids or grandkids. That's not something to be that proud of."Winning is what it's all about."While Fleetwood is still chasing a maiden PGA Tour title, he does know his way to the winner's circle with four victories on the European Tour.He has regularly featured on the leaderboard at majors, including a runner-up finish at last year's U.S. Open and has shown good form this season with three top 10s.More importantly Fleetwood believes his Masters apprenticeship has reached the point where he can fight for a green jacket.After missing the cut in his first visit to Augusta in 2017, Fleetwood improved to a 17th place finish last year. He showed signs that he was getting comfortable with the layout after carding a six-under 66 in the third round."Year one, it's all so new," said Fleetwood. "Year two, you've been here already, so you're more comfortable with it and it just kind of progresses. "There's a different atmosphere."It's the first major of the year and ... everything that's happened before just doesn't really matter.
_________The term per se has appeared in 139 articles on NYTimes.com in the past year, including on March 8 in “U.S. Women’s Team Takes a Stand as Gender Disparities Remain Widespread” by Marc Tracy, Karen Crouse and Matthew Futterman:_________The Word of the Day and the quiz question have been provided by Vocabulary.com. Learn more and see usage examples across a range of subjects in the Vocabulary.com Dictionary.
A timeline of memorable events in Tiger Woods' career:August 1996 — Wins third straight U.S. Amateur and turns professional the following week.October 1996 — Wins the Las Vegas Invitational for his first PGA Tour victory in his fifth professional tournament.April 1997 — Wins the Masters at age 21 with a record score (270) and a record margin of victory (12 shots) to become its youngest champion.June 2000 — Wins the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach by 15 shots, the largest margin in major championship history.April 2001 — Completes the "Tiger Slam," winning the Masters to become the only player to hold all four professional majors at the same time.October 2004 — Marries Elin Nordegren.June 2007 — Nordegren gives birth to their first child, daughter Samantha, a day after Woods finishes runner-up in the U.S. Open.June 2008 — Wins the U.S. Open in a playoff at Torrey Pines for his 14th major, four short of the record held by Jack Nicklaus. A week later, he has reconstructive surgery on his left knee to repair a torn ACL and two stress fractures in his left tibia. He is out for eight months.February 2009 — Wife gives birth to their son, Charlie.August 2009 — Loses a two-shot lead in the final round of the PGA Championship to Y.E. Yang, the first time Woods has lost a 54-hole lead in a major.November 2009 — Crashes his SUV into a tree and a fire hydrant outside his Windemere, Florida home. Within a few weeks, his personal life unravels with reports of multiple extramarital affairs and he loses major sponsorship endorsements. He spends 45 days in a clinic and does not return to golf until the 2010 Masters.August 2010 — His divorce is finalized.March 2012 — Wins the Arnold Palmer Invitational for his first PGA Tour victory since the scandal in his personal life.April 2014 — Has back surgery a week before the Masters and misses Augusta National for the first time.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Fallen hero, crippled star, and now a Masters champion again.Tiger Woods rallied to win the Masters for the fifth time Sunday, a comeback that goes well beyond the two-shot deficit he erased before a delirious audience that watched memories turn into reality at Augusta National.Woods had gone nearly 11 years since he won his last major, 14 years since that green jacket was slipped over his Sunday red shirt. He made it worth the wait, closing with a 2-under 70 for a one-shot victory and setting off a scene of raw emotion.He scooped up 10-year-old Charlie, born a year after Woods won his 14th major at Torrey Pines in the 2008 U.S Open. He hugged his mother and then 11-year-old daughter Sam, and everyone else in his camp that stood by him through a public divorce, an embarrassing DUI arrest from a concoction of painkillers and four back surgeries, the most recent one just two years ago to fuse his lower spine.Woods won his 15th major, three short of the standard set by Jack Nicklaus. It was his 81st victory on the PGA Tour, one title away from the career record held by Sam Snead.It was the first time Woods won a major when trailing going into the final round, and he needed some help from Francesco Molinari, the 54-hole leader who still was up two shots heading into the heart of Amen Corner.Molinari's tee shot on the par-3 12th never had a chance, hitting the bank and tumbling into Rae's Creek for double bogey. Until then, Molinari had never trailed in a round that began early in threesomes to finish ahead of storms.With the final group still in the 15th fairway, there was a five-way tie for the lead. And that's when Woods seized control, again with plenty of help. Molinari's third shot clipped a tree and plopped straight down in the water for another double bogey. Woods hit onto the green, setting up a two-putt birdie for his first lead of the final round. The knockout punch was a tee shot into the 16th that rode the slope just by the cup and settled 2 feet away for birdie and a two-shot lead with two holes to play.Woods finished at 13-under 275 and became, at 43, the oldest Masters champion since Nicklaus won his sixth green jacket at 46 in 1986.Dustin Johnson (68), Brooks Koepka (70) and Xander Schauffele (68) tied for second. Molinari (74) was another stroke back with Jason Day (67), Tony Finau (72) and Webb Simpson (70).OTHER TOURSColombia's Andres Echavarria won the PGA Tour Latinoamerica's Molino Canuelas Championship in Argentina, beating Australia's Ryan Ruffels with a birdie on the second hole of a playoff. Echavarria birdied five of the last six holes in regulation for a 6-under 66. ... American David Kocher beat Japan's Japan's Yuwa Kosaihira with a birdie on the first extra hole in the PGA Tour China's Haikou Championship. Kocher completed a 3-under 69 in the morning in the completion of the weather-delayed third round and shot a 66 in the afternoon. ... Jiyai Shin won the LPGA of Japan's Studio Alice Women's Open. The South Korean player closed with a 3-under 69 for a one-stroke victory. ... South Korea's Cho Jeongmin won the Korean LPGA's Celltrion Queens Masters by a stroke, finishing with an even-par 72 for a 7-under 209 total.___
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Tiger Woods, with his Masters victory on Sunday, added the longevity label to a career that has changed the face of golf both on and off the course.In ending an 11-year major drought by winning the Masters, Woods collected his 15th major title, 22 years and a day after it all began in the very same place at Augusta National.He had long ago cemented his reputation as playing the greatest golf of all time -- highlighted by a 12-stroke triumph here in 1997 and a 15-shot victory at the 2000 U.S. Open at Pebble Beach -- as distinct from having the greatest record ever.That, as defined by major victories, belongs to Jack Nicklaus, whose 18 major victories were spread over 24 years, from the 1962 U.S. Open to the 1986 Masters.Now Woods, 43, can claim similar longevity.For a record total of 683 weeks, he occupied top spot in the world rankings. And from August 1999 to June 2002 he claimed seven majors in just 11 starts and became the first to hold all four modern major titles at the same time.He also has 81 PGA Tour victories, one shy of the all-time mark held by Sam Snead.Allied to his incredible physical skills, Woods has unshakable self-belief and an ability to completely shut out the distractions that come with the territory as one of the world's most famous sportsmen.Woods ushered in an era of multi-million dollar endorsements and was almost single-handedly responsible for a prize money explosion on the PGA Tour, while his Afro-American and Asian roots helped spread the sport to a huge global audience.Many of the players he beat on Sunday were inspired as young boys to emulate Woods.At 43, it is not beyond the realms of possibility that Sunday's victory will be his final major triumph.But with a surgically-fused back that is allowing him to generate almost as much power as 20 years ago it would be brave to bet against a man who has already done the seemingly impossible time and time again. (Editing by Peter Rutherford)
AUGUSTA Ga. (Reuters) - Bryson DeChambeau has earned the "mad scientist" nickname for his calculated approach to golf and may need to spend some extra time in his quirky laboratory to find a winning formula at this week's Masters.DeChambeau, a physics major who previously used a since-banned compass to help read greens, has five wins on the PGA Tour but taming Augusta National will prove the toughest test yet for the American world number six.The year's first major does not provide players with green-reading books, and that could put DeChambeau well out of his comfort zone given the highly-contoured greens at Augusta National that can frustrate the game's best putters."I have to work a little harder to get some insight into some things than other places, but that's fine," DeChambeau told reporters on Monday."I mean, that's a part of the process, and I think the person who digs it out of the dirt the most should have a little bit of an advantage and I think that's where it's actually a positive thing."DeChambeau, who finished as the low amateur at the Masters in 2016 before joining the PGA Tour the following year, already has a win this season but knows he faces a difficult challenge going into Thursday's opening round.Unlike many of his competitors, DeChambeau will not be able to rely on the detailed notes they have modified over the years after logging countless practice and tournament rounds at Augusta National.DeChambeau made no secrets when asked about what impact the lack of green-reading books could have on him this week."Now I practiced trying to understand what one percent is, what two percent is, based on my eyes," said DeChambeau. "Is it as precise as the greens books? Absolutely not. We still have to feel and sense with our eyes what it's going to do."That's really all I can do and I have to practice a lot more hitting breaking putts, because I can't just bring out my compass and go, oh, it's 3 percent and here it is. I have to look at and walk around and go, okay, I'm acclimated to 3 percent." (Reporting by Frank Pingue, editing by Pritha Sarkar)
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Despite having won three of the last six majors he contested Brooks Koepka was not on many Green Jacket radar screens when he arrived at Augusta National this year.He is now.A golfer who prefers to let his play do his talking, Koepka delivered a bogey free six-under 66 that was highlighted by a back nine charge featuring four successive birdies to grab a share of the first round lead alongside Bryson DeChambeau.While DeChambeau, nicknamed the professor, is seen as the brains of the PGA Tour the muscular Koepka is viewed as the brawn having used to spend hours in the weight room.Koepka, however, has recently cut back on his gym time and paid more attention to his diet.His weight loss coincided with an equally noticeable drop in form that saw the 28-year-old slip into a pre-Masters slump, missing the cut at the Arnold Palmer and finishing outside the top 55 at both the Players Championship and WGC Dell Match Play."I lift too many weights and I'm too big to play golf and then when I lose weight, I'm too small," said Koepka. "I don't know what to say. I'm too big and I'm too small."I don't care what anybody else says. I'm doing it for me, and obviously it seems to work."Playing in the last group, Koepka was back to his imposing and intimidating self having what he described as the best ball striking round he has ever had at a major championship.While Koepka has found it difficult to earn the recognition he feels he deserves there is no denying he is a golfer built for the big stage.Of his five PGA Tour wins, three have been at majors.After watching last year's Masters from his couch recovering from a wrist injury, Koepka has returned a major monster successfully defending his U.S. Open crown last year and winning the 2018 PGA Championship."I get to whatever major championship it is and just when I arrive there, I just get a good feeling," said Koepka."I don't know how to explain it. I'm just dialed in and I'm focused the entire week. "I keep pretty much the same routine for all the majors.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — The player who takes the fewest strokes might not win the Tour Championship because of the radical scoring change for the FedEx Cup in which the top seed will start at 10-under par with a two-shot advantage.The PGA Tour will continue to keep a traditional score, even if it won't be published, so that world ranking points can be awarded.The Official World Golf Ranking board met last week at the Masters and approved a PGA Tour proposal that awards full ranking points based on where players would have finished without the staggered start.The No. 1 seed in the FedEx Cup starts the tournament at 10 under, with the No. 2 seed at 8 under, and then 7 under, 6 under and 5 under. The next five players start at 4 under, all the way down until Nos. 26 through 30 begin at even par.Last year at East Lake, Tiger Woods won the Tour Championship at 11-under par, and Justin Rose, who finished tied for fourth at 6 under, won the FedEx Cup and the $10 million bonus.Under the new system, Woods would have started at 2 under as the 20th seed, and thus finished at 13 under. Instead of winning and getting 62 ranking points, he would have finished second. Rose was at 6 under, but he would have started at 8 under as the No. 2 seed and finished at 14 under.The world ranking could not have given Rose points for "winning" when his real score had him tied for fourth.The Tour Championship has such a strong field that not awarding ranking points could have cost players endorsement money, because most contracts have an incentive tied to the world ranking. It's even more critical now because of how tight it is at the top.Brooks Koepka finished the year at No. 1 by an average of 0.02 points.Already this year, there have been four changes at the top of the ranking among Dustin Johnson, Koepka and Rose.TIGER AND SAMTiger Woods officially resumed his chase of Jack Nicklaus and his 18 professional majors when he won the Masters for his 15th major title, and his first in nearly 11 years since the 2008 U.S. Open.His better chance is a race no less prestigious — Sam Snead and his record 82 career PGA Tour victories.The PGA Tour already has begun preparing for such a moment by publishing "Tiger Woods, Chasing 82" on its website. Along with a look at various segments in Woods' career — when he held all four majors, through swing changes, returning from various injuries — the tour goes deep in explaining how Snead reached 82 victories. He was once credited with 84 and then his total was reduced to 81, before the British Open was added.It should come into view the next time Woods plays, which could be the Wells Fargo Championship the first week in May.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Despite having won three of the last six majors he contested Brooks Koepka was not on many Green Jacket radar screens when he arrived at Augusta National this year.He is now.A golfer who prefers to let his play do his talking, Koepka delivered a bogey free six-under 66 that was highlighted by a back nine charge featuring four successive birdies to grab a share of the first round lead alongside Bryson DeChambeau.While DeChambeau, nicknamed the professor, is seen as the brains of the PGA Tour the muscular Koepka is viewed as the brawn having used to spend hours in the weight room.Koepka, however, has recently cut back on his gym time and paid more attention to his diet.His weight loss coincided with an equally noticeable drop in form that saw the 28-year-old slip into a pre-Masters slump, missing the cut at the Arnold Palmer and finishing outside the top 55 at both the Players Championship and WGC Dell Match Play."I lift too many weights and I'm too big to play golf and then when I lose weight, I'm too small," said Koepka. "I don't know what to say. I'm too big and I'm too small."I don't care what anybody else says. I'm doing it for me, and obviously it seems to work."Playing in the last group, Koepka was back to his imposing and intimidating self having what he described as the best ball striking round he has ever had at a major championship.While Koepka has found it difficult to earn the recognition he feels he deserves there is no denying he is a golfer built for the big stage.Of his five PGA Tour wins, three have been at majors.After watching last year's Masters from his couch recovering from a wrist injury, Koepka has returned a major monster successfully defending his U.S. Open crown last year and winning the 2018 PGA Championship."I get to whatever major championship it is and just when I arrive there, I just get a good feeling," said Koepka."I don't know how to explain it. I'm just dialled in and I'm focused the entire week. "I keep pretty much the same routine for all the majors.
DETROIT — Dustin Johnson, Rickie Fowler and Bubba Watson have committed to play in the inaugural Rocket Mortgage Classic.The announcement was made Thursday, two-plus months before Detroit-based Quicken Loans brings a PGA Tour event to the Motor City for the first time.Johnson is currently the No. 1 player in the world ranking, Fowler is No. 10 and Watson ranks No. 17 in the world.Kevin Kisner, Charles Howell III, Si Woo Kim, rookie Cameron Champ , Billy Horschel, Aaron Wise, Jason Dufner and Lucas Glover have also committed to play in Detroit. The competition June 27-30 at Detroit Golf Club will be two weeks after the U.S. Open and four weeks before the British Open, giving organizers hope more stars will join the field.___
Gene Littler, a quietly outstanding golfer who was known as Gene the Machine for an uncommonly smooth and consistent swing that propelled him to the 1961 United States Open championship, died on Friday in San Diego. He was 88.His death was announced by the PGA Tour. His son, Curt, told The San Diego Union-Tribune that he had neuropathy in his legs and had had several falls. In 1972, Littler had surgery for lymph cancer that had seemingly ended his career.In his prime, though self-taught, he had “a perfect swing,” said Gene Sarazen, a winner of seven major championships. “Like Sam Snead’s, only better.”Littler was typically self-effacing in assessing his form. “I just put the ball down and hit,” he once said.Unassuming and devoid of glamour in an era dominated by Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus and Gary Player, and relatively unimposing at 5 foot 9 and 160 pounds or so, Littler simply went about winning tournaments: 29 on the PGA Tour and another eight on what was then the Senior PGA Tour.Littler, who lost two other majors in playoffs and another by one stroke, was a seven-time Ryder Cup player and was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame in 1990.Littler was virtually ignored by the galleries in the early stages of the 1961 United State Open’s final round at Oakland Hills in Michigan. He was among a pack chasing Doug Sanders, who was three shots ahead after the third round, and he had injured a rib earlier in the year, sidelining him for two months. He had won a total of $116 in his first five tournaments of 1961. Not only that, but Littler needed to adjust his widely envied swing a few days before the tournament.As Littler later told it, Ted Kroll, a fellow professional, “told me to hit the ball more directly, or more upright.”Littler added, “I had a tendency to swing flat.”It was Littler’s brilliant putting that carried him to victory at Oakland Hills, whose undulating greens frustrated many of the other contenders. He one-putted on six holes of the final round and needed only the customary two putts at the others, and he sank 15-foot putts at Nos. 7 and 13. After hitting into a bunker guarding the green on the 18th hole, he two-putted for a bogey 5 and a two-under-par 68 that bested Sanders and Bob Goalby by a shot.Gene Alec Littler was born on July 21, 1930, in San Diego and grew to love golf while playing on area courses. He graduated from San Diego State University and then entered the Navy. He won the United States Amateur and played in the Walker Cup amateur competition between the United States and a British-Irish team in 1953.The prominent golf writer Herbert Warren Wind was impressed by the fluidity of such a young player’s swing.“Gene took the club back with a very, very slow, easy, relaxed rhythm, then paused a lazy second at the top before droning slowly down into the ball, delaying his accelerated hitting action until the very last moment when the club head was only two feet or so from the ball,” Wind wrote in 1955 in Sports Illustrated.While still an amateur, Littler won the San Diego Open in January 1954, and he turned pro soon afterward. He almost won the United States Open in June 1954, losing to Ed Furgol by one stroke, and then won four tournaments in 1955. He captured the Tournament of Champions in Las Vegas three consecutive times, from 1955 to 1957. Littler lost to Billy Casper, a friend since their boyhood in San Diego, in an 18-hole playoff at the 1970 Masters.Two years later, Littler was found to have lymph cancer, requiring surgery. Much of the muscular structure on his left side was removed. But through arduous rehabilitation, he was able to regain the use of his left arm and rejoin the tour. He won the St. Louis Children’s Hospital Classic in July 1973 and received the Ben Hogan Award as comeback player of the year and the Bob Jones Award for distinguished sportsmanship in golf.
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. — LPGA founder and pioneering golfer Marilynn Smith has died at 89.The LPGA Tour said she died Tuesday in Goodyear, Arizona, surrounded by family and friends. Smith last was seen in public March 24 at the Bank of Hope Founders Cup, greeting players as they walked off the 18th green.Smith was one of the 13 founders of the LPGA Tour. Her 21 victories, two majors and endless support of her tour led to her induction into the World Golf Hall of Fame.Commissioner Mike Whan said on the tour's website that Smith was his "North Star and most importantly my friend."Smith was president of the LPGA from 1958 to 1960. In 1973, she became the first woman to work a PGA Tour event as a TV broadcaster.The LPGA Tour began in 1950. The only surviving founders are now Shirley Spork and Marlene Bauer Hagge.
SAN ANTONIO — Si Woo Kim narrowly missed a second hole-in-one on consecutive days and saw his four-shot lead trimmed to one over Monday qualifier Corey Conners after Saturday's third round of the Valero Texas Open.Kim aced the 16th hole at the TPC San Antonio on Friday, and he missed it by inches on the way to a third round 3-under 69. He was at 15 under, and Connors, trying to become the first Monday qualifier to win on the PGA Tour since 2010, was a stroke back after shooting a 6-under 66.Charley Hoffman, the 2016 Texas Open winner, moved up the leaderboard with a birdie-birdie-eagle finish and the week's best round of 64. He was two back of Kim at 13-under.Scott Brown turned in a second straight 67, and Jhonattan Vegas also shot 67. Both were at 11 under with Kyoung-Hoon Lee (69) and four strokes back.Rickie Fowler and Jordan Spieth started the day tied for second, four shots back. Both finished eight shots out of the lead after ballooning to rounds of 1-over 73.
They work just as hard as men for less pay.When they complain, they are told they need to generate as much money as men do if they want to get paid as much as men are paid. When they say that’s essentially impossible without more opportunities and promotion, they are told opportunity and promotion will happen once they start producing more money.This is the narrative at the heart of the gender discrimination lawsuit the United States women’s national soccer team filed on Friday against U.S. Soccer, but in nearly every sport, gender disparities in pay and working conditions are rampant.Coming just three months before the start of the Women’s World Cup, the litigation immediately became the central plotline for the event and brought to the fore an issue that has increasingly rankled the sports world.[Eight times women in sports fought for equality.]In golf last year, the world’s top-ranked woman earned as much as the 33rd-best man. The United States women’s hockey team expected to have a victory tour after winning gold at the Pyeongchang Olympics last year. It didn’t happen. The N.B.A. minimum salary of $1.35 million for a player with one year of experience is higher than the salary cap for an entire W.N.B.A. roster.“Unless the origin of the sport is anchored in women, like gymnastics or field hockey, I don’t think there’s a culture that starts with the premise: Women are going to be treated equally, or, we’re going to make up for the historical discrimination against women and make sure we’re going where we need to go,” said Donna Lopiano, a sports management consultant and former University of Texas athletics administrator, referring to both the national governing boards and to college sports.According to the national women’s team’s suit against U.S. Soccer, differing systems of compensation for the men’s and women’s teams have led to the women repeatedly earning less than their male counterparts, even though the women are defending champions and the men failed to qualify for the 2018 World Cup.Supporters of women’s sports praised the soccer team on Friday for taking a stand and trying to force the powers that be to address its complaints.“College sports has a great statute called Title IX,” said Nancy Hogshead-Makar, the chief executive of the advocacy group Champion Women.“What it takes, though,” she added, “is 18- to 22-year-olds speaking up, because the adults in the room have abdicated that role of ensuring gender equity.”Title IX — the 1972 landmark federal law mandating gender equity in higher education, including college sports — is nearly 50 years old. But advocates say that many universities fall short of the statute’s requirement that athletic opportunities must correlate with the overall student population. Both the college sports establishment and the federal government have evinced little interest in enforcing that requirement strictly.Advocates say that the N.C.A.A. and its members have not sufficiently prioritized increasing funding for women’s sports.“If sports are being dropped, the money isn’t going to women’s sports — it’s going to the arms race in football and men’s basketball,” Lopiano said. “The culture is football and men’s basketball first. Boys first. Women are still at the back of the bus.”Amy Wilson, the N.C.A.A. managing director of inclusion, said the N.C.A.A.’s member colleges, which create most policy, had no plans to further enforce Title IX to make up for the federal government’s failure to act.
HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. — Dustin Johnson, known for length off the tee, showed off his precise ball-positioning and hot putter Saturday to take the RBC Heritage lead.Johnson shot a 3-under 68 for a one-shot lead over Shane Lowry, Ian Poulter and Rory Sabbatini.The top-ranked Johnson, a South Carolina native who had not played his home state's only PGA Tour stop for nine years before returning in 2018, seems to have found a home on Harbour Town Golf Links' narrow fairways and smallish greens. He had his sixth round in the 60s over the last two years to reach 10 under."I'm really enjoying playing in it," Johnson said. "I really enjoyed playing in it last year after being away for so long. It's something I look forward to now. We have a really big fan base here and growing up in South Carolina definitely helps."Lowry led the first 48 holes before making three bogeys on his final six holes in a 71. Poulter shot a 67, and Sabbatini had a 68.Patrick Cantlay kept up his stellar weekend play and was two shots behind. Cantlay shot 64-68 last week at the Masters and had a 66 to lead a group of six at 8 under.Johnson, who's won 20 PGA Tour titles, showed off other parts of his game that sometimes get overlooked by his massive drives. He saved par out of the pine straw after a bad drive to the right and into the trees on the 12th hole, then made birdie on the par-5 15th after putting his tee shot in the woods. He hit just five of 14 fairways, yet had only 25 putts."The course played tough. It was very challenging," he said. "It was tough getting balls close to the hole."So Johnson just made a bunch of long putts. He had a 20-footer for birdie on the sixth hole and a 19-footer for birdie on the 13th. The highlight came at No. 14 when Johnson dropped a 47-foot bomb that caught the lip of the cup and rolled almost all the way around before dropping.Was there some secret to Johnson's play?"No," he said, "they just went in."If he can keep it up Sunday, Johnson will become just the second South Carolina born player to win the RBC Heritage, joining friend and one-time Dutch Fork High golf teammate Wesley Bryan, who became the first to do it two years ago.Johnson won the World Golf Championships-Mexico Championship in February and tied for second last week in the Masters.Lowry was the steadiest of anyone for the first 2 1/2 rounds and held a three-stroke lead over Johnson entering the back nine before faltering. The Irishman came up short on a sand shot on the 13th hole and took bogey. He put his tee shot into the water on the par-3 14th for a second straight bogey. Two holes later, Lowry added his third bogey after going the first 48 holes with just one."Even making those bogeys, it was the best I've been in a while (to stay in position for a victory)," he said.
LOS ANGELES — A mariner could navigate Riviera Country Club by the stars that come out to the Genesis Open to behold Tiger Woods, who made his PGA Tour debut at this tournament when he was a 16-year-old amateur.All but one of his 12 starts in the event have come at Riviera, the Los Angeles course that Ben Hogan ruled in the 1940s but that Woods has never cracked, managing only one top-three finish.A Wednesday downpour — which ended up being a portent of Thursday’s wiped out first round — did not prevent spectators like Jared Goff, the Los Angeles Rams quarterback, and the actor Timothy Simons, of HBO’s “Veep,” from following Woods through his morning pro-am round.Neither of them, though, gave Woods the kind of affection he received from a seven-year-old yellow Labrador retriever named Quebec, who licked Woods’s face  when he stopped to talk briefly with the dog’s owner, Jake Olson.Quebec is the guide dog for Olson, a senior long snapper on the University of Southern California football team who is blind. After Woods greeted Olson, he leaned down to scratch Quebec’s ears and neck, inviting the face lapping.Olson asked how Woods’s three dogs were doing, and Woods’s response also neatly summarized his own status. “The old one is still hanging around,” he said.Woods, 43, now the host of the Genesis Open, ended a five-year victory drought in September at the Tour Championship, pulling within two wins of Sam Snead’s PGA Tour record of 82.Like Woods, Olson grew up roughly an hour’s drive south of Riveria, in neighboring Orange County. Olson lost his left eye to a rare form of cancer when he was 10 months old, and he was playing golf and football when the disease took his right eye at age 12 — but not before Woods won the 2008 United States Open in a 19-hole playoff, a sight seared in Olson’s memory.If Olson became an ardent fan of Woods on that Father’s Day weekend, Woods became a huge fan of Olson nine years later, when Olson snapped the ball for an extra point in U.S.C.’s 2017 season opener against Western Michigan. Two months later, Olson heard from Woods, receiving a typewritten note signed by the 14-time major winner.The letter, Olson said, described his college playing debut as an “uplifting moment” and congratulated him on his “great achievement.”The correspondence from Woods was “crazy special,” said Olson, who wrote back and told Woods that of all the magical doors that had swung open as a result of his college football cameos, that letter meant the most.“Kids my age grew up in awe of you,” Olson said, describing the message he sent to Woods.Someday, Olson said, he hopes to play in the Genesis pro-am.“I think if you just look at what he’s been able to accomplish, the fearlessness that he just attacks life with,” Woods said, “he doesn’t view himself as any different than any of us.”He added, “It’s inspiring.”
AUGUSTA Ga. (Reuters) - Augusta National patrons have proven for decades to be a different breed from fans at any other sporting event, providing a sort of golfing oasis for the world's best players each year during the Masters.At Augusta National, where the Masters began on Thursday after three heavily-attended practice days, one might have better luck booking a tee time at the exclusive course than finding anyone doing things like shouting out of line or using a cell phone.Augusta National has essentially managed to maintain a remarkable sense of civility and respect among those attending the Masters, despite operating in a time where sporting events often produce excessive fan behavior."It's quite refreshing to have everything in control," said twice major champion Martin Kaymer of Germany. "You know what you are going to get here. It's a very peaceful place."Everybody behaves perfectly fine, it's very respectful and I think sometimes we miss that in sport. So that's why it's a good week to come to."Augusta National prides itself on tradition and while the club's strictly-enforced rules may not make sense to everyone who attends the year's biggest golfing event the list of no-nos are, for the most part, followed to a tee.And so it is no surprise that the first page of the Masters Spectator Guide begins with a passage written by club co-founder Robert Jones in 1967 that addresses conduct, customs and etiquette."In golf, customs of etiquette and decorum are just as important as rules governing play," Jones wrote, going on to add that "most distressing to those who love the game of golf is the applauding or cheering of misplays or misfortunes of a player."NO RUNNINGIn many ways, Augusta National operates in a world of its own and has created an aura about itself that has appeared to permeate almost anyone who walks through its gates.As such, you are unlikely to see people sprawled out on the course's luscious grass, and if you do it will not be for long as they will quickly be asked to sit up properly. Running is also considered unacceptable."There's something about Augusta National when someone walks through the gates, they know that it's a place of respect, of beauty, and honoring traditions and values of the game," said Augusta National chairman Fred Ridley."It's something ... I certainly hope never changes."One member of the media at this year's Masters was asked to remove his New York Mets baseball cap while eating breakfast in the Press Building's dining room.Even 2018 Masters runner-up Rickie Fowler fell foul of the hat rule when, as a 22-year-old Masters rookie, he showed up to a 2011 news conference at Augusta National wearing his cap backwards until a club member asked him to turn it around.
The gravity of the event and the nuances of Augusta National are the driving factors behind only three rookies winning the green jacket in the 82 Masters contested since 1934.Ten professionals among the 87-player field will be making their Masters debuts this week.There are few household names, but plenty of talent that could make some noise this week. Rating the rookies in this year's field:Eddie Pepperell, England (World Golf Rank: 40): Pepperell first popped onto the worldwide scene by posting the low round on Sunday at last year's Open Championship. He made another final-round run at The Players last month, again showing that he can handle the biggest stages. We like the 28-year-old's game -- and mental makeup -- to be hovering around the first page of the leaderboard come Sunday.Matt Wallace, England (36): Some will recall Wallace's hole-in-one at last year's PGA Championship. But the Englishman is well known on the European Tour after posting three victories in 2018. His form hasn't been stellar since a solo second at the Dubai Desert Classic in January -- a T6 at Bay Hill being his only other top-10 this year. But Wallace's game garners a lot of respect from fellow players.Lucas Bjerregaard, Denmark (43): Other pros had hinted at the Dane's all-around game before he slayed Tiger Woods en route to a semifinal showing at the WGC-Match Play event last month. He missed the cut last week and fatigue has to be a concern after a busy stretch in the U.S. for the European Tour star.Keith Mitchell, United States (60): It's understandable that Mitchell's results have tailed off since winning his first PGA Tour event at The Honda Classic and then posting a T6 the next week at Bay Hill. He went T47 at The Players before failing to advance out of the group stage at Match Play. Mitchell has a lot of game and, more important at Augusta National, length to spare.Corey Conners, Canada (84): Talk about a whirlwind turn of events. Conners had to Monday qualify just to be in last week's field at the Valero Texas Open. He then went on to win the event and secure the final spot in this year's Masters -- along with a slew of other perks. He's an unlikely contender but should at least be playing with nothing to lose.Aaron Wise, United States (67): In the field courtesy of his victory at the AT&T Byron Nelson last year, there is little to suggest that Wise is prepared to make a run this week. He has four missed cuts in his past seven starts and only one top-20 result. His swing is highly inconsistent at the moment, which was on full display during his Match Play loss to Woods.Andrew Landry, United States (128): Landry admitted losing some focus after winning his first PGA Tour event at last year's Valero Texas Open. He didn't make the cut in his title defense, which has been fairly standard of late. He has five MCs in nine events in 2019 and hasn't posted a top-20 result since last July.Adam Long, United States (108): Another first-time winner this season at the Desert Classic, Long promptly missed his next five cuts. On the Web.com Tour this time last year, Long will no doubt enjoy the pageantry and the azaleas, but sticking around for the weekend would be considered a significant accomplishment.Kevin Tway, United States (98): It has been going steadily downhill for Tway since beginning the 2018-19 season with a victory at the Safeway Open. That includes six consecutive missed cuts dating back to February.Michael Kim, United States (330): How does the world's 330th-ranked player make his way into the Masters field? By winning last year's John Deere. Since then, Kim has missed 13 of 18 cuts, including all eight in 2019. He tied for last in the limited-field Tournament of Champions and missed two more cuts prior to that.--Derek Harper, Field Level Media
Tiger Woods on Monday withdrew from this week’s Arnold Palmer Invitational because of a neck strain. While Woods played down the injury, any fresh health setback to the game’s most popular player has often elicited alarm throughout the golf community.Recognizing that level of concern, and aware that a series of lower back surgeries nearly ended his career, Woods tried to mitigate the expected reaction to his exit from the Palmer event, which he has won eight times.“My lower back is fine, and I have no long-term concerns,” Woods wrote on his Twitter account.Woods, 43, indicated he has been bothered by the neck strain for “a few weeks,” and added: “I’ve been receiving treatment, but it hasn’t improved enough to play.”Woods’s neck issue may indeed be minor, but for many years when he struggled to play through myriad infirmities, Woods often withdrew from a tournament with a similarly short statement about a seemingly insignificant injury. In the end, he missed dozens of events, and his absences from competition lasted months because of multiple, serious knee operations and four back surgeries.On Monday, Woods did offer one encouraging sentence: “I hope to be ready for The Players.”The Players Championship, which is the PGA Tour’s flagship event and is often called a fifth major golf championship, runs from March 14 to 17. Woods’s optimism about playing in the tournament will help calm worries about his golf fitness for now.But should he miss that tournament, a fair amount of panic will probably ensue about his ability to continue a startling comeback that was one of the most uplifting stories in sports last year. The Masters begins in five weeks, on April 11.Six months ago, Woods completed an unforeseen return to golf’s upper echelon and ended a five-year winless drought, with a victory at the season-ending Tour Championship. It was the 18th tournament that Woods played in 2018 — his first full schedule of events since 2015. He did not miss a tournament he was scheduled to appear at last year.This year, Woods has already played three times. Eight days ago, he finished tied for 10th at the Mexico Championship. At that event, Woods did not mention any neck discomfort, and he did not say Monday how the injury occurred. In his two other events this year, Woods tied for 20th at the Farmer Insurance Open at Torrey Pines in late January, and he shared 15th place at the Genesis Open at Riviera in mid-February.Woods last won the Arnold Palmer Invitational in 2013, although he made a charge up the leaderboard at the event last year before stumbling in the final holes to finish in a tie for fifth place.“I’d like to send my regrets to the Palmer family and the Orlando fans,” Woods wrote on Twitter on Monday. “Its connection to Arnold makes it one of my favorite tournaments and I’m disappointed to miss it.”Woods, who has won 80 PGA Tour events and 14 major championships, has elevated his world golf ranking to 12th. That ranking had slipped as low as 1,199th while he battled various leg and back injuries.
Through Tiger Woods’s 11 years in the wilderness between major tournament wins, professional golf searched for a successor.Would it be Phil Mickelson, the once-snakebit lefty who is actually older than Woods but who got over the hump in 2004 to become his most formidable early-career challenger? How about Rory McIlroy, the phenom from Northern Ireland, whose brutal collapse in the final round of the 2011 Masters was immediately followed by his first major championship? Or maybe Jordan Spieth, whose Masters win in 2015 tied Woods for the 72-hole record?Ultimately, it ended up being all of them, and therefore none of them. Each had a handful of major tournament wins and at times looked as if he could dominate the sport. But none emerged as the next Tiger. Golf itself stagnated as Woods struggled, his shadow looming in a way that was almost as impactful as his presence had been for the previous decade.Now that Woods is back on top, the question is whether the sport can take advantage of his twilight years to build something that survives when his career finally does end.Jay Monahan, the commissioner of the PGA Tour, believes the sport is well positioned to capitalize on the re-emergence of Woods. He pointed to the new schedule, with the P.G.A. Championship held in May, and a long-term, $2 billion international television rights agreement with Discovery.“It’s not like you change your business in a moment like this,” Monahan said. “You think about how you get to a moment like this and put your tour and product in the best possible position.”By most metrics, golf peaked in the early 2000s, at the height of the first Tigermania. According to Gallup, in 2000, 5 percent of Americans surveyed said golf was their favorite sport to watch. By 2017, that number was 1 percent. Golf was tied with volleyball, boxing, gymnastics, motocross, figure skating and rodeo.According to the Sports and Fitness Industry Association, 29.5 million Americans played a round of golf in 2007. In 2017, that number was 23.8 million, a decline of 19.3 percent.Unlike most other sports, which believe fans respond most to parity, Woods’s dominance was electrifying for golf. From June 1997 — when he first became the world’s No. 1-ranked golfer — to October 2010, only four golfers besides Woods were ranked No. 1, for a total of less than a year and a half. Woods was ranked first for two different five-year streaks in that time.Since October 2010, 11 golfers have been ranked No. 1, and only committed golf fans and golfers can name more than a few of them.The money available to golf professionals, however, continues to grow, and if Woods keeps winning he’ll do something few athletes get to: Profit from the explosive growth in revenue that the athlete himself drove.In professional sports, athletes benefit from the stars of the preceding generation driving interest. Magic Johnson earned less than $24 million in his entire career; LeBron James earned $33 million this season.In 2019, the top prize at each tournament on the PGA Tour — even the Corales Puntacana Resort and Club Championship — is more than Woods earned for winning the 1997 Masters. The FedEx Cup bonus pool has doubled, to $70 million.The massive growth in professional golf’s revenue over the past two decades isn’t due solely to Woods, but he was certainly its biggest driver. In the nearly 11 years between major wins for Woods, in which he was revealed to be a serial adulterer, pleaded guilty to reckless driving, had four back surgeries and didn’t even enter a major for two years, numerous segments of the business of golf struggled.Nike, the company that has paid Woods hundreds of millions of dollars and whose red shirts he religiously wears on tournament Sundays, dived into the business when Woods turned pro in 1996 and signed him to an apparel endorsement contract. At the time, Nike manufactured only a limited selection of golf clothing, not equipment.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Jack Nicklaus was fishing in the Bahamas on Sunday as Tiger Woods resumed circling him in the quest for Nicklaus’s record of 18 major golf championships. But in his news conference after winning the Masters for his 15th major title, Woods didn’t sound exactly bloodthirsty.“I’m sure that I’ll probably think of it going down the road,” Woods said, referring to Nicklaus’s 18 victories at golf’s four major tournaments. “Maybe. Maybe not. But right now, it’s a little soon, and I’m just enjoying 15.”Then again, Woods didn’t have to say much. His clubs had delivered a convincing argument that he is “trending in the right direction,” as Woods is fond of saying. Tony Finau, who was grouped with Woods in the final round, was more succinct.“From what I saw today,” Finau said Sunday, “obviously he’s not going anywhere.”Brooks Koepka, who has won three majors since 2017, felt confident going out on this limb: “I think 18 is a whole lot closer than people think.”How about three-months-off close?What Woods put into play Sunday was the elusive calendar Grand Slam — winning all four majors in the same year. No player in the modern era has done it. In golf’s storied history, only one man, the amateur Bobby Jones in 1930, has managed it.[What’s next for Tiger Woods? Here’s the schedule for golf’s major events.]Woods has come exquisitely close. He claimed the United States Open, the British Open and the P.G.A. Championship in 2000 and the Masters in 2001 for what became known as the Tiger Slam.The next two majors are at courses on which Woods already has a record of success.The P.G.A. Championship will take place next month at Bethpage Black on Long Island, site of Woods’s wire-to-wire victory at the 2002 U.S. Open (he also tied for sixth when the tournament returned there in 2009).The U.S. Open is in June at Pebble Beach in California, where Woods won the 2000 tournament by a record 15 strokes — and where he also won the annual PGA Tour event the same year. If Woods is going to chase the great white whale of golf records, he couldn’t ask for more inviting seas.During an 11-year major title drought that was exacerbated by injuries and ignominy, Woods needed to be in contention on the back nine in the final round a couple of times before he broke through. His first tests came at last year’s final two majors, and Woods acquitted himself well, sharing sixth place at the British Open and finishing second at the P.G.A. Championship.“The 15th was always going to be the hardest,” said Rickie Fowler, 30, who joined the PGA Tour in 2010 and had seen Woods win nine tour titles before Sunday.But two of the golfers who finished one stroke behind Woods — Xander Schauffele, 25, and Koepka, 28 — joined the tour after Woods’s last dominant season, his five-title haul in 2013. Of Woods’s 81 tour victories, one shy of tying Sam Snead’s career mark, they experienced only the 2018 Tour Championship up close and personal.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — From the last player to get an Augusta National invite to an appearance on the Masters leaderboard Corey Conners' wild April ride continued on Thursday firing an opening round 70 to sit four shots off the lead at the year's first major.Just 10 days ago the Canadian was playing in the qualifier for the Texas Open and fully expected to be sitting on his couch watching the Masters on television.But an astonishing two-shot victory in San Antonio on Sunday earned Conners, ranked 196 in the world, a maiden PGA Tour title, a $1.35 million pay day and a priceless invitation to Augusta National."I'm a math and stats guy and it was very unlikely that I was going to be here, I'll say that, especially having to Monday qualify last week," admitted Conners."So, yeah, could have said almost certain that I wouldn't be here but it's worked out really well and I'm really happy."Connors was in the first group off on Thursday, receiving a congratulatory handshake from Jack Nicklaus after the Golden Bear and Gary Player fired the ceremonial tee shots.Receiving recognition from Nicklaus, however, would not be the highlight of the day for the 27-year-old who would later eagle the par-five 15th to briefly sit top the leaderboard."Never thought in a million years that Jack Nicklaus would know who I am," said Conners. "I had a great day out there."It was beautiful, it was fun to be first off this morning, felt pretty special to be out there on the tee and I am really happy with how I played."Conners certainly enjoyed his opening round far more than his first visit to Augusta National in 2015 when he qualified for the Masters by finishing runner up at the U.S. Amateur.That day the Canadian labored to an eight-over 80."It's been wild, definitely unexpected but I'm playing some good golf and really excited to be here and honored to be playing in the Masters," said Conners."I had a great day out there today, a lot of fun, and hit some quality shots." (Editing by Greg Stutchbury)
AUGUSTA, Ga. — As Patrick Reed surveyed his second shot, he seemed to have a dozen worries on his mind.Which way was the wind blowing? Where on the green should he land his ball? Would the fans in his peripheral vision stop moving?In a sport where the ball is still and the mind is active, and where distractions from unruly fans, bad bounces or sudden gusts of wind abound, focus can be difficult to maintain. But during the first round of the 2018 Tour Championship in Atlanta, it became nearly impossible. Reed took one last look at his target and what he saw nearly made his head go haywire.Why was his estranged father standing behind the green?No one on the PGA Tour these days has his powers of concentration tested as much as Reed, whose sometimes brash personality generates intense reaction among his peers and the public alike. For every person like the two-time major winner Curtis Strange, who said that he admires Reed’s self-belief, there are dozens who will never forgive him for proclaiming himself “a top-five player in the world” when he was 23 years old and ranked No. 20.Yet easily the worst distraction that Reed faces any week, but especially this one, when he will defend the Masters title he won last year, is the possibility that at any moment he will look up and come face-to-face with the most painful chapter of his life.Reed’s parents live six miles from Augusta National Golf Club, in a two-story, Southern-style Colonial replete with a bedroom shrine to their first child and only son, who hasn’t stepped foot in the house since 2012. This week should be a joyous homecoming for Reed, who led Augusta State (now Augusta University) to back-to-back national championships and will preside over Tuesday’s legends-laden Champions dinner. But instead it has all the makings of a nightmare, with his acrimonious relationship with his family threatening to become as much a part of this year’s Masters narrative as his attempt to become the first golfer since Tiger Woods in 2002 to successfully defend his title.“I wouldn’t at all be surprised if they show up,” Reed said.Reed, 28, has steadfastly declined to speak publicly about the reasons for the family schism. In a Sports Illustrated story in 2015, Reed’s mother insinuated that the rift resulted from Reed’s marriage, at age 22, to the former Justine Karain, against the advice of his parents who worried that he was too young.Reed’s parents were not invited to last year’s Masters, when their son held off a challenge from Rickie Fowler and Jordan Spieth down the stretch, just as they were not invited to his 2012 wedding. They have not met either of his two young children. To attend this week’s tournament, they will have to enter the grounds with badges they did not obtain from him.Last year the drama was confined to the course, but in the year since, Reed said he knew of two occasions in which his father and younger sister, Hannah, followed him at golf tournaments. Their motivation remains a mystery. When contacted for this article, Reed’s parents politely declined to comment. In an email, Reed’s mother replied, “At this time we have no comment on this subject and we hope you will respect the privacy of Hannah, Bill and myself.”Danny Coulson, a former deputy assistant director of the F.B.I. who directs the PGA Tour’s security, saw Reed’s father at the first of the two events where Reed also noticed him, last September’s Tour Championship at Atlanta’s East Lake Golf Club. Coulson said he had cordially explained to Bill Reed what he and his staff have expressed over the years to Patrick: If Reed’s father wishes to watch golf, he is free to do so unless he does or says anything that would warrant his ejection.Reed had other guests at the Tour Championship. He is extremely close to the Karains. One of Justine’s brothers, Kessler Karain, is his caddie and another of her brothers, Dan Karain, was visiting from Texas to lend his support. Justine stayed home in Houston that week, but from his spot in the gallery, Dan Karain was the first to recognize Reed’s father and sister behind East Lake’s fifth green as Reed was preparing to hit.Reed said afterward that he wasn’t aware that his father and sister were there until the par-4 17th hole, when he was sizing up his approach shot and he noticed them standing along the rope line behind the green. He said he immediately tried to steer his focus back to golf.Reed was wild off the tee that day, hitting only six fairways, but later said his problems were strictly self-inflicted. If he had noticed his father and sister on the front nine, he said, “I would have called for security to throw them out.” But those were his emotions boiling over after a round so frustrating that he went straight to the range after signing his scorecard and hit dozens of balls.
ORLANDO, Fla. — After his Friday round at the Arnold Palmer Invitational, Rory McIlroy spent the afternoon at Walt Disney World riding the Tower of Terror amusement park ride. He was persuaded to take the excursion by his wife, Erica, who reminded him that he visited Disney’s parks last year and two days later produced an enchanted final round for a come-from-behind victory, his 14th on the PGA Tour.For those who hitch their allegiances to McIlroy, following him can be a white-knuckle ride. McIlroy ranked first in the field in driving distance for the measured holes, 314 yards, and he played his way into the final Sunday pairing for the ninth time since January of last year — and for the third time in 2019. And for the ninth time since January of last year — and for the third time in 2019, McIlroy, a four-time major winner and a former world No. 1, could not close out a tournament from the last group.Francesco Molinari, the reigning British Open champion from Italy, who began the final round at Bay Hill five strokes off the lead, carded an eight-under-par 64 to finish at 12-under, two better than the 54-hole leader, Matthew Fitzpatrick, who posted a 71.McIlroy, who closed with a 64 on his way to last year’s title, shot 72 to finish in a four-way tie for sixth. It is his fifth top-six finish in five starts this calendar year, and also his 12th top-eight finish in his last 23 worldwide starts.During his final-pairing run of close calls, McIlroy, 29, has lost to some of the top players, including Tiger Woods, Dustin Johnson, Justin Thomas, Patrick Reed and Molinari.“I’m playing well,” McIlroy said. “I would much rather be putting myself in position to have a chance to win.”That is the lottery-half-won way of looking at it. The other way to view it is that when the title has been within his grasp, McIlroy has not hit his approaches close enough or putted well. On Sunday, he played the par-5s in one-under.“I just didn’t play the par-5s well enough,” McIlroy said, adding, “I was saying to Matt walking up 17 it’s like we’re hitting really good shots, but we’re leaving ourselves putts that we were sort of being defensive with because you don’t want to run it 6 feet by trying to hole them.”Putting was not a problem for Molinari, who drained four birdie attempts of more than 17 feet, including a 21-footer at No. 1 and a 44-footer at No. 18.“One of my best putting rounds ever,” said Molinari, who also coolly sank an 11-footer to save par at the second.The first of Molinari’s three victories last season came at the BMW P.G.A. Championship at Wentworth, which was the third time in 2018 that McIlroy was in the final group. He began the fourth round tied with Molinari, who shot four under for a two-stroke victory over McIlroy. By the end of the summer, Molinari had added the Quicken Loans and British Open titles — and McIlroy had played his way into three more final-round pairings: at the World Golf Championships event in Ohio, the BMW Championship and the Tour Championship.“When I won last year, playing with Rory,” Molinari said, “it wasn’t easy at all. So from there, I started building my confidence and just saying I could get it done.”Molinari, 36, was grouped for the first two rounds with Brice Garnett and Ted Potter Jr., two golfers with zero major titles and three PGA Tour wins between them.Despite his No. 10 world ranking and his star turn with Tommy Fleetwood for the European team at last year’s Ryder Cup, Molinari seemed easy to overlook on the leader board. Keith Mitchell, who consolidated his first tour title last week with a tie for sixth at Bay Hill, signed his scorecard for a closing 66 — and an eight-under total — while the leaders were on the front nine.Asked what he thought the winning score would be, Mitchell guessed 10 or 11 under and said, unbidden, “I think Rory McIlroy’s obviously proven himself time in and time out” so that if he went lower, he added, “I wouldn’t even be surprised.”
(Reuters) - Shane Lowry held on to his slender lead at the RBC Heritage on Friday though the Irishman still has two holes left to complete his second round after play was suspended for the day at the weather-hit South Carolina tournament.Lowry was three-under par for the round when darkness halted play, leaving him on nine-under for the tournament, a stroke ahead of Trey Mullinax (68), who is already in the clubhouse on eight-under 134 at Harbour Town Golf Links.Lowry, who opened with a 65, will return at 7:45 a.m. local time (1145 GMT) on Saturday to play the remaining two holes before beginning his third round.Dustin Johnson and Argentine Emiliano Grillo shot matching 67s to finish on seven-under 135 before rain and high winds forced a suspension for nearly four hours.Lowry collected birdies on his first two holes before the storms hit. He returned for two more birdies and a bogey.Grillo had the highlight of the round after holing out from 254 yards for a two at the par-five fifth hole. It was the first albatross at the Hilton Head, South Carolina course since 2007 and the fourth of the year on the PGA Tour."It was a perfect shot," Grillo said. "Perfect distance. Perfect everything. Perfect wind. It was one of those that was good, but you never expect it to go in."The Argentine also had three birdies after starting the round with two bogeys.Johnson claimed five birdies against a single bogey."It was difficult all day," the world number one said. "The wind blew consistently all day. Made it tough. But I hit a lot of really solid golf shots. "At times it was really difficult to judge the wind but I felt like I played really solid all day, gave myself a lot of opportunities."Johnson liked his weekend chances but hoped he could roll in a few more putts."The greens are tricky," he said. "For me, I don't know, I've always struggled reading them. But I hit some really nice putts and I played really solid."Xander Schauffele, who had tied for second at the Masters, shot a 70 to sit eight strokes off the lead.Italy's Francesco Molinari, who took a two-shot lead into the final round at Augusta National before being overtaken by Tiger Woods, was unlikely to make the projected cut of even par.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — After 26 Masters appearances, it is hard to catch three-time champion Phil Mickelson off guard even with a revamped fifth hole that has been the talk of Augusta National this week.Steely play may be in order at the redesigned Magnolia, where the tee has been moved back 40 yards, but Mickelson told reporters on Tuesday that he was taking it in his stride."I think 4, 5, 6, 7 is a very difficult four-hole stretch and making it a little bit harder I think is a good thing," Mickelson said. "I always like making hard holes harder."Experience on the difficult greens is something Mickelson can rely on to help snag a Green Jacket for the fourth time, with his 100th career round at the Masters slated for Friday."There are always little subtleties and nuances that you have to relearn," he said."Every time I come out here and practise, I pick up a little something here or there that I did not know on how to play a certain shot from a certain position to a certain pin."If he can secure victory, it will be by defying the odds. Mickelson, who will turn 49 in June, is roughly two and a half years older than the oldest Masters champion Jack Nicklaus, who claimed his sixth victory in 1986 at the age of 46. Mickelson already has a career befitting one of the game's greats, having spent over 25 years on the PGA tour, with 195 top-10 finishes, 44 PGA championships and five major wins. That does not mean he is looking to slow down anytime soon."There's no reason now with the knowledge we have in fitness, the knowledge we have in biomechanics, and the knowledge we have with nutrition and so forth, that we, at a much older age than in the past, should not be able to perform at a very high level," Mickelson said.The only major to elude him has been the U.S. Open, in which he has either tied for or placed second on six times. But after winning the Pebble Beach Pro-Am in February, it seems a career grand slam may still be in reach since this year's U.S. Open will be played on the same course. (Reporting by Amy Tennery; editing by Ken Ferris)
AUGUSTA, Georgia — When Justin Rose launches his 14th bid for Masters glory this week he will be armed with expert knowledge of Augusta National's notoriously tricky greens and something perhaps even more valuable -- a good friend. After three months apart, the newly re-minted world number one told reporters on Monday that he was pleased to be reunited with long-time caddie Mark 'Fooch' Fulcher, who had to take time off following heart surgery in January."I feel like we've learned together so much here, I wouldn't expect a nugget of information I don't know to come out during practice," Rose said after a practice round.He added that Fulcher's presence would be especially valuable in the later rounds of the tournament, when emotions run high."It's when the going gets tough," Rose said. "We have so many positive experiences out there under pressure that we can draw on together."The 2013 U.S. Open champion has clinched a top-10 finish on five separate occasions at The Masters. But perhaps no single outing at Augusta National was more formative to Rose than his devastating playoff loss to Spaniard Sergio Garcia in 2017."I felt like that was the first major I've been close to and not won, really, like a heartbreaker," Rose said. "I think I took comfort in the fact that you can't get through a career without something like that happening."It was far from the only setback. Injuries to his shoulder and back nagged at Rose in 2014 and 2016, respectively, and he pulled out of an August 2018 World Golf Championships event citing joint tightness.The 38-year-old Olympic gold medalist has had time to bounce back, notably netting his 10th PGA tour victory in January with a two-shot win over Adam Scott at Torrey Pines.Rose, who took a month off in February after missing the cut at the Saudi International, is now looking to add to his trophy case with a second major win."I would take four, as long as it's one of each," Rose said. "That would be awesome. That would be enough." (Reporting by Amy Tennery; editing by Ken Ferris)
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Jon Rahm is back in contention at the Masters after shooting a 3-under 69 in the opening round. This time, he'll have a head start on most of the field entering the second round instead of fighting just to make the cut.The 24-year-old Spaniard finished in fourth place last year at Augusta National, but had to fight from behind after shooting an opening round 75."Today, it's just kind of the start," Rahm said. "Trying to get the tournament going. Hopefully you get yourself in position. It's a huge bonus to be in the lead — it's an amazing feeling."I'm just happy I shot under par in the first round of the tournament."Rahm was in the same group on Thursday as Tiger Woods, who also had a good opening round after shooting a 70. Playing with Woods always brings out the crowds, but Rahm didn't seem fazed by the big gallery, playing a bogey-free back nine that included birdies on No. 11 and No. 13.The two-time PGA Tour winner is known for his temper, but kept his emotions in check on Thursday. He rarely compounded his mistakes. A good example was the 505-yard, par-4 No. 11: He hit his drive into the pine straw, but recovered with an approach that found the green and then finished with a 34-foot putt for birdie. A big grin followed."I think that the most important thing is I never lost patience," Rahm said. "I was 1-over par on the par 5s going to the back nine where it's easy to get a little frustrated and I didn't. I kept my cool and I was able to make a great birdie on nine and get where I'm going."He also got some good fortune on No. 15, when a wayward drive that was flying left bounced off a tree and left a manageable second shot that led to par.It was his fourth straight round at Augusta National shooting in the 60s.Last year, Rahm shot 65 on Saturday and a 69 on Sunday, vaulting up the leaderboard to finish four shots behind winner Patrick Reed.Rahm said that the most encouraging thing about Thursday's round was he managed to stay among the leaders even without being in top form. Now up to No. 8 in the world rankings, playing well at Augusta is beginning to become a habit."I didn't have my best, I was a little shaky with the driver, I was able to keep it in the fairway for the better part today," Rahm said. "My iron play also didn't feel the best, but again I was able to manage it and hit some quality shots out there."___
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. — By contending this week at the Players Championship, Rory McIlroy is delivering a reminder that the rounds are long, but the years are short.A cherubic-cheeked McIlroy turned 20 on Monday of his debut at the PGA Tour’s flagship event at TPC Sawgrass in 2009; four days later, he missed his first, and only, cut of that tour season. He has since collected 14 tour victories, including four majors, and held the men’s world No. 1 ranking on seven occasions.Next month, McIlroy will make his fifth attempt to complete a career Grand Slam at the Masters, but first things first: On Sunday he will aim to close out a victory after a number of close calls this year.With a two-under-par 70 on Saturday, McIlroy is tied for second with Tommy Fleetwood (70) at 14 under, one stroke behind Jon Rahm of Spain, who carded a 64, one stroke shy of the course record. The key to Rahm’s resplendent round was the four par-5s, which he covered in five under — five strokes better than McIlroy and two better than Fleetwood.“I was committed on each shot, and it worked out,” said Rahm, who eagled the par-5 11th after he hit his 4-iron second shot to inside 4 feet. It was an exceedingly rare example — maybe only the second or third time in his professional career, Rahm said — where he pulled off a shot exactly as he had visualized it.Rahm’s strategy on Sunday as he goes for his third official PGA title and seventh over all since he turned pro in 2016, is straight out of a mindfulness memo. “Be decisive, commit to one thing and worry about what I have to do every single shot,” he said.McIlroy, who has never cracked the top five in nine previous starts here, hurried through his postround comments so he could wring the last rays of light out of the day on the range working out the kinks in his swing after he found only four fairways.“Just maybe getting ahead of it a little bit,” McIlroy said, adding, “Maybe just getting a little quick from the top, probably something very simple.”It was the rough-day response of a player who has grown into a statesman’s role, as he demonstrated this week by describing slow play in golf as an “epidemic.”At least McIlroy will not be the last one waiting on Sunday, as he avoided the final pairing, where he is 0-for-9 dating to January of last year. Fleetwood received the honors over McIlroy, with whom he was paired Saturday, on a technicality; Fleetwood had started the day hitting first.McIlroy, 29, will play with Jason Day (12 under) in the second-to-last group, which was his starting post the last time he captured a title, at the 2018 Arnold Palmer Invitational.McIlroy vowed not to worry about his failure to seize opportunities — be it on the par-5s on Saturday or in all the Sunday rounds he has strung together in 2019.In five starts this year, McIlroy’s lowest finish is a tie for sixth.“I showed some character out there, showed some grit,” he said, adding, “I’m still right there going into tomorrow.”McIlroy described every day, and each week, as a clean slate. “It’s a new opportunity,” he said. “That’s the nice thing about our game, which doesn’t happen in some other sports, and it’s nice to take advantage of that luxury.”
AUGUSTA, Ga. — The 87 players who are eligible and expected to play in the 83rd Masters, which starts Thursday. Players listed only in the first category for which they are eligible.MASTERS CHAMPIONS: Patrick Reed, Sergio Garcia, Danny Willett, Jordan Spieth, Bubba Watson, Adam Scott, Charl Schwartzel, Phil Mickelson, Angel Cabrera, Trevor Immelman, Zach Johnson, Tiger Woods, Mike Weir, Vijay Singh, Jose Maria Olazabal, Bernhard Langer, Fred Couples, Ian Woosnam, Sandy Lyle, Larry Mize.U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONS (five years): Brooks Koepka, Dustin Johnson, Martin Kaymer.BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONS (five years): Francesco Molinari, Henrik Stenson, Rory McIlroy.PGA CHAMPIONS (five years): Justin Thomas, Jimmy Walker, Jason Day.PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP WINNERS (three years): Webb Simpson, Si Woo Kim.U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPION AND RUNNER-UP: a-Viktor Hovland, a-Devon Bling.BRITISH AMATEUR CHAMPION: a-Jovan Rebula.ASIA-PACIFIC AMATEUR CHAMPION: a-Takumi Kanaya.LATIN AMERICA AMATEUR CHAMPION: a-Alvaro Ortiz.U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPION: a-Kevin O'Connell.TOP 12 AND TIES-2018 MASTERS: Rickie Fowler, Jon Rahm, Cameron Smith, Marc Leishman, Tony Finau, Charley Hoffman, Louis Oosthuizen, Justin Rose.TOP FOUR AND TIES-2018 U.S. OPEN: Tommy Fleetwood.TOP FOUR AND TIES-2018 BRITISH OPEN: Kevin Kisner, Xander Schauffele.TOP FOUR AND TIES-2018 PGA CHAMPIONSHIP: Stewart Cink.
AUSTIN, Tex. — Rory McIlroy never trailed in his first three matches at Austin Country Club, advancing to the round of 16 at the World Golf Championships match-play event without having to play the 17th or 18th holes. He was looking to extend his front-running ways in an elimination match against Tiger Woods, whose superlative career has been a sucker pin that McIlroy recently decided to stop taking dogged aim at.McIlroy, 29, has 15 PGA Tour titles, including four majors, which makes him the leader of the men’s 20-something set but far behind a pre-30-year-old Woods’s pace of 46 PGA Tour titles, including 10 majors.McIlroy came into this week as perhaps the hottest player in the men’s game, with six top-six finishes in his first six starts in 2019, including a victory at the Players Championship. But unlike Woods, whose stated goal when he was McIlroy’s age was to win every time he played, McIlroy spoke earlier in the week of the likelihood that he would fail since he wins less than 10 percent of his starts. With odds like that, McIlroy has learned to measure success in other ways, like framing the struggles as growth opportunities and accentuating the positives.McIlroy had never faced Woods, 43, in match play, and he clearly had no idea how quickly the conditions could change from warm to chilly. There was the rain and wind that blew in on the back nine, which was forecast. But McIlroy ought to also have been prepared to face an opponent, in Woods, who was a dispassionate adversary intent on making putts, not conversation.McIlroy’s easy familiarity is with Woods, the friend and mentor. He sometimes practices with Woods, his South Florida neighbor, and he and his family regularly dine at the restaurant that Woods owns. McIlroy’s last two major victories came in 2014, the year of Woods’s worsening back problems, which led to four operations and two essentially lost seasons.So as McIlroy’s stature was growing, he got only glimpses of Woods, the foe and mentalist whose competitive fire often reduced his would-be rivals to ash.On Saturday, a sizable congregation of early-rising Woods worshipers watched a match of dueling personalities — Woods’s intensity versus McIlroy’s inclusivity. In the end, the edge belonged to Woods, whose 2-and-1 victory slowed McIlroy’s momentum as he rolls into Augusta for the Masters in two weeks.In the afternoon quarterfinals, Lucas Bjerregaard sent Woods packing with a 1-up defeat, which Woods described as a snag in his pre-Masters preparation. “I was really hoping to play Sunday,” he said, referring to the semifinals and final.Woods’s match against McIlroy, which ended when Woods drained a 15-foot par putt to halve the par-3 17th hole, began to turn on the par-4 fifth when McIlroy had an 8-foot birdie putt to go 1-up. He backed away from the attempt and waited for more than a minute while the players on an adjacent fairway hit their shots. The pause gave McIlroy plenty of time to think about the putt, which he then missed.Funnily enough, McIlroy might have been one of the few people at the hole who was aware that there were others in action. This was Woods’s first appearance as a professional in Austin, and fans flocked to watch him play as if he may never again come their way.McIlroy tried to draw Woods into casual conversation early in the match only to have his attempts peter out like short putts. They did not talk during a lengthy delay on the fifth tee while they waited for the fairway to clear. McIlroy idly bounced a ball several times on the face of his driver. Woods took his ball, placed it between his right index and middle fingers and flipped it in the air and caught it between the same two fingers, a sequence he repeated several times.McIlroy missed a 3-footer to lose the 10th hole, extending Woods’s lead to 3-up. But as the weather turned, so, too, did the momentum. As the wind began to whip and a cold rain started to fall, McIlroy won the 12th and 13th holes with his first birdies of the day. The match looked as if it might be getting away from Woods when he hit his drive at the par-4 15th way left, where water lurked. But his ball bounced off someone or something and came to rest in grass trampled down by fans. After a great third shot, Woods sank a nervy 8-footer to match McIlroy’s par.If Woods’s putter hurt McIlroy’s comeback hopes, the final blow was self-inflicted. On the par-5 16th, McIlroy’s drive traveled 395 yards. He was in the fairway, 173 yards from the pin, and somehow made what amounted to a 7 on the hole. With Woods on the green in three, McIlroy produced his worst swing of the day. The ball landed in the rough near the lip of a greenside bunker, and he pitched his next shot over the green as fans in the vicinity scattered.The ball came to rest against a wooden bulkhead, and McIlroy took an unplayable lie, leading to Woods winning the hole without having to hit a putt. McIlroy was muttering to himself as he walked to the 17th tee, but after Woods ended the match on the 17th green, McIlroy had nothing to say.He hopped into a cart and left the grounds without talking to reporters. It was a rare fit of pique from McIlroy, who has worked hard over the past year to moderate his emotions no matter what score he cards.
LOS ANGELES — Matt Kuchar said Saturday that the golden rule in his family is pretty simple and that it goes like this: “In any situation if you can just understand where somebody else is coming from, it makes the world a whole lot better of a place.”Applying that rule, of course, isn’t always that easy, as Kuchar can certainly attest. His inability to put himself in the place of the local caddie he employed while winning a tournament in Mexico in November caused Kuchar a whole lot of heartache, and it was only on Friday that he decided to pay the caddie a lot more money for his work than he initially did.“Listen, I was stubborn,’’ Kuchar said after he completed the rain-delayed second round of the Genesis Open at Riviera Country Club.The problems for Kuchar began after he won the Mayakoba Golf Classic in Playa del Carmen to break a four-year winless streak and collected a $1.296 million first-place check. He then paid the caddie, David Ortiz, $5,000, an exceedingly small amount by professional golf standards. And once it became known what Kuchar had done, there was mounting criticism of him from inside and outside the sport.At first, Kuchar, 40, doubled down in defense of the payment but after listening to fans publicly ridiculing him and receiving no great show of support from his fellow players, Kuchar thought some more and had a change of heart.He issued a statement on Friday apologizing for what he acknowledged were insensitive comments he made about the payment and said Ortiz had now been paid a much bigger amount — apparently an additional $45,000.“It’s been an interesting two or three days,” Kuchar said.The controversy that Kuchar generated thrust into the spotlight one of the more private of public relationships in sports. Golfers and caddies are independent contractors thrust into a codependent relationship, bound by financial terms usually known only to them.Regular caddies on major pro tours generally pay for their own travel, lodging and food, with no guarantees that the player they are working for will make any money in a given tournament or that they will earn anything more than the flat rate, usually $1,500 to $1,800 for a long weekend of work.If the tournament is being held in a city with a high cost of living, that might not be enough for the caddie to break even. But because the regular caddies absorb a higher financial risk in signing on for bag duty than local caddies do when hired on the spot, they generally reap a higher reward, in the form of bonuses, when the golfer they are working for wins significant prize money.But most of these arrangements are simply handshake deals. In the absence of a written contract, players have to let their consciences be their guides. Last season, Scott Langley became the first graduate of The First Tee — a program that promotes core values like integrity and respect — to win a PGA Tour-sanctioned event.Using a local caddie, Langley won the Panama Championship in Panama City, Fla., on the Web.com tour, which is a notch below the PGA Tour. It was his first Tour-sanctioned victory as a pro, and he won $112,500. Langley proceeded to write a personal check to his caddie for more than $11,000 because he had agreed up front to pay him 10 percent of whatever he made at the tournament on top of the flat rate for a caddie, usually $500 to $800 on that circuit.“I had an agreement with my caddie at the start of the week and I paid him accordingly,” Langley said on Saturday, with a shrug. “It’s on the player to be fair and generous.”In the afterglow of his first victory in more than four years, Kuchar initially believed that he had done right by his caddie in bestowing upon him a $1,000 bonus in addition to the handshake agreement of $4,000 they had if he finished in the top 10. Ortiz later asked for $50,000, which he believed was a fair request for the input he had provided in reading greens and the local wind.“In my mind, I had it as a deal is a deal,” Kuchar said, “but after I won the tournament, a deal wasn’t a deal. Not a good deal. Any transaction — all parties should come out feeling like they’ve won, and certainly in David’s case he did not feel like he won in that situation and I needed to make that right.”
A day after Tiger Woods won his fifth Masters title and 15th major tournament in a rousing resurrection of his career, President Trump said Monday he would give him an honor almost as exclusive as a green jacket from Augusta National Golf Club: the Presidential Medal of Freedom.Mr. Trump said on Twitter that he would bestow the award, without saying when. “Because of his incredible Success & Comeback in Sports (Golf) and, more important, LIFE, I will be presenting him with the PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM!,” Mr. Trump wrote.The Presidential Medal of Freedom is the nation’s highest civilian honor, and is awarded to those who make outstanding contributions to national security or national interest, world peace, culture or other public or private endeavors. The medal has been awarded since 1963, and is typically given to a dozen or fewer people each year.Over the years numerous sports figures have received it, especially under the presidencies of George W. Bush, Barack Obama and Mr. Trump, all noted sports fans.Just last year Babe Ruth, Roger Staubach and Alan Page were awarded Presidential Medals of Freedom. Woods will not be the first golfer to get the award; Arnold Palmer and Jack Nicklaus were honored in consecutive years in the mid-2000s, and Charles Sifford, the first African-American to play on the PGA Tour, was honored in 2014. But it is rare for an active athlete to receive the honor.Mr. Woods has a longstanding relationship with Mr. Trump, an avid golfer. They own property near each other in Florida and have golfed together a number of times, both before and after Mr. Trump became president.In February, Mr. Trump tweeted a picture of himself with Woods and Nicklaus at the Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter, Fla. The next day, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter, “Tiger is back & will be winning Majors again!”Over the years Mr. Trump has repeatedly tweeted about watching Mr. Woods play golf.They are also business partners. Mr. Woods is designing the course at the Trump World Golf Club Dubai, set to open in 2019.Mr. Woods acknowledges having played golf with Mr. Trump and having eaten together, but otherwise is reluctant to speak about their relationship. “Well, he’s the president of the United States,” Mr. Woods said last year. “You have to respect the office.”Still, while several African-American athletes have criticized Mr. Trump or kept their distance, Mr. Woods, who is of African-American and Thai descent, has maintained his relationship with him.When asked last August after a tournament if he had any thoughts about race relations in America, Mr. Woods demurred. “No, I just finished 72 holes,” he said. “And really hungry.”
AUGUSTA Ga. (Reuters) - Tony Finau is no stranger to making a charge at Augusta National, fortunately for him the one he made at the Masters on Saturday left him with a better chance of slipping into a Green Jacket than an ankle brace.Finau, who dislocated his ankle while celebrating an ace in last year's Par-3 Contest on the eve of his Masters debut, surged into contention with an eight-under 64 that brought him to 11 under, two shots off leader Francesco Molinari.His also tied the tournament's front-nine record with a six-under 30. "I can attack the golf course if I'm hitting my driver well, and I have been thus far. I felt good," said Finau. "Going into today, I felt calm and comfortable, and I think my score showed that."While Finau courageously finished in a share of 10th place at last year's Masters, he was still largely known as the golfer who blew out his ankle while celebrating a hole-in-one.Finau even had some fun at his own expense this week, sending the gallery into fits of laughter when he put on a hilariously high-topped shoe featuring added support for his since-healed ankle before teeing off in the Par-3 Contest.Finau, who started the day four shots back of the co-leaders, got off to a scorching start on Saturday, opening with three consecutive birdies.From there he was off to the races, adding another birdie at the sixth before making eagle at the par-five eighth after his approach settled eight inches from the cup.Finau, the first golfer of Tongan and American Samoan descent to play on the PGA Tour, added another two birdies on the back nine.The 29-year-old American will play in the final threesome on Sunday with Molinari (66) and Tiger Woods (67). With heavy rain and thunderstorms forecast for late on Sunday, officials have decided to send golfers off in threesomes from both the first and 10th tees rather than the traditional pairs in an attempt to get the final round completed.Finau is no stranger to being in contention at one of golf's blue-riband events having been in the mix on the final day of last year's U.S. Open, a learning experience he hopes will pay off of Sunday."It's going to help because I've been in that ‑‑ I've been in that situation before," said Finau. "Last year I had the lead going into the final round of the U.S. Open, and I took a run at it toward the end."I feel like I've learned some things about that finish that I can apply to tomorrow, and hopefully do better." (Editing by Peter Rutherford)
NAUCALPAN DE JUÁREZ, Mexico — Nine holes into his record-tying round Sunday, Justin Thomas bumped into Rory McIlroy, who was waiting to tee off on the first hole at Club de Golf Chapultepec. He said he asked McIlroy how he thought the afternoon would go.McIlroy began the final day of the Mexico Championship four strokes behind Dustin Johnson, a deficit that was daunting but hardly insurmountable; the previous Sunday, J. B. Holmes charged from four strokes back to beat Thomas at the Genesis Open.McIlroy told Thomas it would be hard to catch Johnson because of how well he was playing, a prediction that proved to be hit-the-flagstick accurate. Johnson, who was sixth on the PGA Tour in driving distance last year, ranked first in this week’s field in putting. It was an unbeatable combination as Johnson closed with a five-under-par 66 to finish five strokes clear of McIlroy, who posted a 67.Johnson’s 72-hole total in this World Golf Championships event outside Mexico City was 19 under. McIlroy finished at 16 under, which would have been good enough to win each of the previous two years that the tournament was held here. On Sunday, all it got McIlroy was a five-stroke cushion over the third-place finishers: Paul Casey (65), Ian Poulter (68) and Kiradech Aphibarnrat (68).Tiger Woods recorded a 69 to finish in a four-way tie for 10th at eight under.“It was sort of like there was two different golf tournaments going on and I won the second one,” said McIlroy, who has posted top-five finishes in all four of his tour starts in 2019.Thomas, who played in the first group off the back nine, took advantage of pristine greens and nonexistent pressure to record a 62, tying his year-old course record, vaulting him into ninth. His score represented a 13-stroke improvement over his final 18 last Sunday at Riviera Country Club.“I would sure play a lot of money to switch the two,” Thomas said with a smile. “I would gladly take a 50th place this week to win last week.”Johnson, 34, became the first player since Davis Love III in 2008 to reach 20 PGA Tour titles. “To get 20 wins out here is very difficult, and do it before I turn 35 is pretty incredible,” Johnson said, adding, “This is a big one for me, and it gives me a lot of confidence for the rest of the year.”Johnson is not lacking for confidence. He has two victories and a tie for ninth in his last four starts. He also extended his streak of seasons with at least one tour title to 12, an emphatic argument for his inclusion among the finest players in the men’s game (Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer share the record at 17, one better than Billy Casper and three more than Woods).McIlroy, 29, also extended a streak, this one more enigmatic. Since January of last year, he has played his way into the last group for the final round eight times — without emerging triumphant. McIlroy’s lone title run in that stretch came at Bay Hill last March when he started the final round in the next-to-last group.To mount a charge, McIlroy needed to get off to the kind of hot start engineered by Casey, who teed off four groups ahead and birdied the first three holes. Johnson started shakily, playing the first five holes in one over, but McIlroy, despite making a birdie at the second, could not swing the momentum his way. He did not find a fairway off the tee until the eighth hole and he missed a birdie putt of 11 feet on the first hole and a 6-footer for par on the fourth.After playing the first nine in one over, McIlroy settled for par on No. 10, which Johnson birdied. At that point, McIlroy said, his caddie, Harry Diamond, told him to forget about trying to catch Johnson and concentrate on consolidating second place.“I knew at that point that I didn’t have a chance; D. J. was playing too well,” McIlroy said.McIlroy covered the final eight holes in five under and all he could do was equal Johnson’s final-nine 31.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Charles Howell III waited a long time to get back to the Masters and wanted his return to last through the weekend. So he entered Friday's second round with a safe approach mindset, hoping to just make the cut.Then came a chip-in for birdie on No. 5 to get a little momentum. Later, he made a 36-foot putt for eagle on No. 13.Suddenly, making the cut wasn't a concern; he could focus on contending.Howell, a 39-year-old Augusta native, shot a 5-under 67 on Friday and was just three shots behind the leaders. He shot in the 60s for the first time in 28 rounds at the Masters."I felt a little more comfortable out there than I have in the past," Howell said. "Not that any day at Augusta National do you feel greatly comfortable. But for whatever reason, maybe it's the time, maybe it's my age now, I don't know."Hopefully I'll feel that way and be that way on the weekend."The weekends haven't often been kind to Howell.He's had plenty of success, making the cut in most tournaments and earning more than $38 million over nearly two decades.But a lack of victories — he has just three on the PGA Tour — has meant the local favorite has often watched the Masters on television in recent years. He played at Augusta National every year from 2002 to 2008, but made the field just once (2012) over the next decade.Howell earned a trip back this spring by winning the The RSM Classic in November . It was his first win in 11 years and ended a streak of 332 straight starts without a victory.Now he's savoring every moment on the course and it doesn't hurt to also be playing some good golf."I think age makes me appreciate being here more," Howell said. "I don't take that invitation that comes in the mail for granted."Howell hasn't often been a factor in majors — his highest career finish is a 10th place showing at the PGA Championship in 2003. He doesn't know how he'll react to being in the hunt on Saturday, but is ready for the challenge."I don't think the nerves every go away," Howell said. "I don't know that I ever really want them to go away. I'm lucky enough to play golf for a living in a venue like this. Holy cow, I don't know how it gets much better."Howell said Friday's charge up the leaderboard was mostly about gaining confidence. The chip-in on No. 5 came from 26 yards away and seemed to jolt his game.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Thirty-three years since Jack Nicklaus won the Masters at age 46, he remains the oldest claimant of the Green Jacket and perhaps only Phil Mickelson among this year's competitors is a realistic chance to break the Golden Bear's mark.But 61-year-old Bernhard Langer thinks that sooner or later a grey-haired older player will win a major, perhaps even the Masters.Nicklaus showed what is possible not just by winning here in 1986 but by going close 12 years later in what would have been a victory of historic proportions.He was in contention until the final few holes before eventually finishing equal sixth, four shots back of winner Mark O'Meara.But for all the talk of the value of experience at Augusta National, it has been an exception rather than the rule for players over 50 to contend for the Green Jacket.Spaniard Miguel Jimenez finished fourth in 2014, three months after his 50th birthday, while the performance of Langer that same year was also impressive as he finished equal eighth at age 56.Langer, never a particularly long hitter even in his prime, says the length of Augusta National eventually catches up with him over 72 holes.He thinks a longer hitter is more likely to crack the code, someone who can still almost match distance with the young bucks from the tee."It's a lot harder for me now than 20-30 years ago," 1985 and 1993 champion Langer told Reuters."The course has gotten longer. The last few years I'm wearing out my three and four-iron and two-hybrid into these par-fours, whereas these young guys are hitting eight-irons. "It's just hard to compete when you have that disadvantage."Langer gets a sobering baptism these days right off the bat at the par-four first, which now stretches to 445-yards. When the hole plays into a cool north-westerly headwind, his drive invariably longs on the upslope, leaving him so far from the green that he has a blind second shot."I can't even see the flag (sometimes)," he said.Not even meticulous course management and a consistent putting stroke can make up for the 50 yards or more head start that he is giving younger players off the tee.
RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. — Albane Valenzuela could have been teeing it up Wednesday in the inaugural Augusta National Women’s Amateur, where the contestants who survive the cut will play the final 18 holes on the fabled course where men will compete at the Masters next week.Valenzuela, a junior at Stanford and the fifth-ranked women’s amateur in the world, seriously entertained the invitation from the board of governors of the Augusta National Golf Club until she received what she considered a better offer for this week: her third start in the ANA Inspiration, the women’s first major of the year.“Getting to tee off and play the same course as the world No. 1,” she said Tuesday, referring to South Korea’s Sung Hyun Park, “I think that’s the best experience you can get.”Augusta National officials have trumpeted their amateur invitational as a grand stage for women’s golf. That overlooks the major originally known as the Dinah Shore, which has captivated young golfers since 1972. The tournament has cultivated indelible traditions like the winner’s leap into Poppie’s Pond and consistently provided significant exposure for top amateurs like Valenzuela, who used her 2016 debut here as a springboard to the Rio Olympics.Augusta National didn’t admit its first female members until 2012. And while it has since opened its course to boys and girls through the Drive, Chip and Putt contest and to amateur women, these inclusive gestures have ignored — and however unintentionally, undermined — the L.P.G.A., one of the longest-running women’s professional sports organizations.The Drive, Chip and Putt contest, held the Sunday before the Masters, has siphoned television and other media coverage from the final round of the ANA Inspiration. And with the advent of the Augusta National Women’s Amateur, the spotlight on the best women’s players in the world has become more diffuse.“I think it comes from a very positive place in Augusta — they want to do the right thing,” Valenzuela said. “It’s probably not my place to say, but it would have been great if both could have worked together to make them happen in different weeks, because you don’t want to get the spotlight off the L.P.G.A.”The ANA Inspiration matters because the magnetic moments that attracted Valenzuela to the sport as a child didn’t involve Augusta National, which for most of its history has been so far out of the women’s orbit that it might as well have been on Mars.“Ever since I’ve been a little girl I’ve seen all the girls jump in the pond,” Valenzuela said, adding, “This is the women’s Masters.”On Wednesday, Jennifer Kupcho, a Wake Forest senior and the top-ranked women’s amateur, struck the opening drive of the new event at the Champions Retreat resort in Evans, Ga., the site of the first two rounds. Only the final round will be played at Augusta National.Across the country Wednesday, Valenzuela grooved her swing on the Mission Hills practice range. Stacy Lewis, the 2011 ANA Inspiration champion, said she planned to extend a warm welcome to Valenzuela and the four other amateurs in the field: Patty Tavatanakit, Frida Kinhult, Rachel Heck and Xin Kou, who is also known as Cindy.“I’m really proud of them,” said Lewis, the former women’s world No. 1 who recently returned to competition after the birth in October of her first child, a daughter. “If you want to play professional golf, you need to play in majors, and you need to see where your game stacks up and have that experience of playing in front of those big crowds.”Valenzuela has advanced to the weekend in each of her previous starts in this event. If she misses the cut this week, she will not be idle over the weekend. Her consolation prize will be joining her Stanford teammates on Sunday at the Silverado Showdown, a collegiate women’s event in Napa.Stanford is ranked fourth in the Women’s Golf Coaches Association poll and is jockeying with other top teams for seeding positions at next month’s N.C.A.A. championship. Another Stanford star, Andrea Lee, chose to play in Georgia this week.Anne Walker, Valenzuela’s coach at Stanford, said in a telephone interview that she welcomed Augusta National’s move into the women’s game, describing it as “another great opportunity that’s opened up.”
AUGUSTA Ga. (Reuters) - Rickie Fowler returned to Augusta National on Monday with the heartbreak of last year's runner-up Masters finish firmly behind him and brimming with confidence that a breakthrough major win is closer than ever.Fowler, a five-times winner on the PGA Tour, has three runner-up finishes to show from 36 major appearances and as a result finds his name on the list of the best players who have never won one of golf's four blue riband events.But such talk does not discourage the 30-year-old American, who comes into the year's first major in solid form and among the favorites to claim a Green Jacket."Compared to four, five, whatever years ago, yeah, I'm more ready than I've ever been," Fowler told reporters. "Not saying that I can sit up here and tell you I'm definitely going to go win, but I like my chances."I love this place. I know I can play well around here. For me, every time I get to play it, it's fun ... I get to use my imagination around here." Last year Fowler started the final round at Augusta National five shots behind overnight leader Patrick Reed but a sparkling back nine, which included a birdie at the last, saw him card a five-under-par 67.The strong finish was not enough as Reed managed to hang on for a one-stroke victory but Fowler, after getting over the pain of another near miss, was able to take plenty of positives from his performance."The way I executed on the back nine Sunday last year was definitely something I pull from, and it was a lot of fun to be in the mix, birdieing 18, to make Patrick earn it a bit," said Fowler."But I was just a little bit too far back, and Patrick put together a strong week of golf."So it was fun. It was great to be in the mix, and like I said, have a chance. But time to do one better."Fowler's performance at last year's Masters also marked the first time in eight starts at Augusta National that he recorded four par or better rounds.He has made a strong start to 2019, including a win at the Phoenix Open in February, and is fresh off a share of 17th place at the Valero Texas Open where Fowler said he ticked a lot of boxes when it came to having his golf game where he wanted it. "Some guys don't like to play (the week) before a major. Sometimes they like to get work in at home with their coach or work on the game and spend time on the driving range," said Fowler."For me, playing and just seeing where the state of my game's at and what I may need to work at makes Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday a lot more efficient. I know exactly what I want to do." (Editing by Ken Ferris)
(Reuters) - Canadian Corey Conners clinched an astonishing two-shot victory over American Charley Hoffman at the Texas Open on Sunday to punch the final ticket to the Masters.Conners, ranked 196th in the world, compiled a crazy, rollercoaster six-under-par 66 that included 10 birdies in the final round at TPC San Antonio.He followed four early birdies with four consecutive bogeys on the front nine before storming home with six birdies and three pars to claim his first PGA Tour title."It just doesn't seem real," Conners told reporters after finishing at 20-under 268 to secure his second shot at the Masters after playing as an amateur in 2015.Hoffman birdied the par-five 18th to shoot 67 and claim second place, a shot ahead of fellow American Ryan Moore (64).South Korean overnight leader Kim Si-woo (72) faded to equal fourth with American Brian Stuard (66) on 15-under."I've been close a few times and feel like I've learned a lot in those situations and that really helped today," said Conners, the 15th Canadian to win on Tour."I couldn't be more excited to get over the edge. There's so many perks that come with it."The 27-year-old from Ontario was so low on the pecking order that he was not even exempt into the Texas Open.Instead, he had to run the gauntlet of a Monday qualifier, among 73 players competing for four spots.Six players ended up in a playoff for the final berth, and Conners was the man to emerge triumphant and he went on to become the first Monday qualifier to win since 2010. Conners started the final round a shot behind Kim, but powered to a four-shot lead after just five holes as the birdies flowed.But what the golfing gods give, they also take away, and the Canadian lost those four strokes as quickly as he had gained them as Hoffman took the lead with a birdie at the ninth."Got off to a great start, birdied number five and walked to sixth tee thinking, 'wow, this is really awesome' and then reeled off four bogeys," Conners said."I didn't get too down on myself. I knew I was playing really well. It was nice to have a little break between nine and 10 and give myself a bit of a pep talk."
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Tiger Woods' drama-filled win Sunday at Augusta National made for a memorable Masters.The severe weather that threatened to create havoc on the course never materialized, but the chaos came anyway. The leaderboard was a volatile place for about an hour, with players rising and falling every few minutes.Francesco Molinari was the leader at one point before hitting into the water at No. 12. Then it was Xander Schauffele and even Patrick Cantlay for a brief moment. Dustin Johnson was in the hunt for a while. So was Brooks Koepka. Jason Day came out of nowhere to get back into contention.The dizzying changes were nearly impossible to follow — even for players competing on the course. Roars from the crowd were coming from every corner of August National. The lead was there for the taking."It changed hands about, what, five times?" Koepka said. "Everybody was kind of going up and then down, up and down again."In the end, it was Woods celebrating on the 18th green after capturing his fifth Masters title. Koepka, Schauffele and Johnson were a shot behind. Four others, including the third-round leader Molinari, were two shots back."There were so many different scenarios that could have transpired on that back nine," Woods said. "There were so many guys that had a chance to win. Leaderboard was absolutely packed and everyone was playing well. You couldn't have had more drama than we all had out there, and now I know why I'm balding."This stuff is hard."It's also fun to watch.Because of the threat of thunderstorms, tee times were pushed up several hours for the final round. Players were in groups of three instead of the usual pairs and the leaders teed off at 9:20 a.m. so the tournament could end by mid-afternoon.PGA Tour Commissioner Jay Monahan said the final round worked out better than anyone could have predicted.As Woods walked off the course, he exchanged hearty hugs with previous Masters winners as fans screamed and chanted his name."Look at everybody who wants to be here and lay eyes on this," Monahan said. "It's going to be interesting how people describe this in the context of great moments in sports."Some players said on Saturday they were pleased about the early start because it didn't allow much time to let the pressure build. And most players chasing the leaders seemed to play relaxed.There were 11 players who finished within three shots of the lead. All of them finished the tournament with a score of 10-under or better, which is the most in Masters history.
Phil Mickelson was part of a five-way tie for first place Friday when play was suspended because of heavy rainfall during the second round of the Pebble Beach Pro-Am in Northern California.Mickelson posted a four-under-par 68 at Spyglass Hill, for a 10-under score over all, before the rain began, accompanied by high wind. Lucas Glover, Scott Langley and Paul Casey sat 10 under par, too, as did Jordan Spieth, who was on No. 16 when play was suspended for the day.Glover shot a six-under 66 at Pebble Beach to reach 10 under, and Paul Casey turned in the low round on Friday with a 64, firing five birdies, an eagle and no bogeys at Monterey Peninsula, the easiest of the three courses used during the tournament.Brian Gay, who was tied for the first-round lead with Langley, struggled to a 72 at Spyglass Hill on Friday and was tied for eighth. Dustin Johnson, a two-time winner at this tournament, shot two over in his round at Spyglass Hill to fall to three under over all with two holes remaining in his round.After an opening round in which he did not miss a fairway, Mickelson struggled with his accuracy off the tee and had consecutive bogeys on Nos. 6, 7 and 8.But Mickelson’s solid putting bailed him out and he credited his familiarity with the course’s tricky poa annua greens for his success at the tournament, where he is a four-time champion.In his previous four victories, Mickelson was twice the leader or a co-leader after 36 holes, tied for third once and tied for eighth once.Mickelson, 48, said that while he was coming off a disappointing 2018, when he recorded only one victory, he made an adjustment that allowed him to pick up five to six miles per hour in his driver speed, leading to increased confidence off the tee.“That rarely happens to anybody, let alone to somebody in their late 40s,” he said. “That led me to be pretty optimistic leading into this year. I think that’s going to lead to some good things.“If you’re going to be crooked off the tee, you sure as heck better be long. And that’s kind of the way I’m trying to approach it.”Cameron Champ, a PGA Tour rookie, was on the 18th hole when the horn sounded. He opted to finish the hole, chipping onto the green, where there was standing water, and then having the grounds crew squeegee a path to the hole. Champ hit the putt, and the ball splashed into a cup full of water, bringing him to two under for the tournament.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — The Tiger Woods major watch, stagnant for so long that it had almost been abandoned, is back on and Jack Nicklaus might yet be proved correct.As the years ticked by from 2008 and an injury-riddled Woods got stuck for more than a decade on 14 major titles, four short of Nicklaus's record, the "Golden Bear" kept saying he still thought his mark was in jeopardy.Such talk, while Woods battled a potentially career-ending back injury, was widely dismissed as little more than politeness from someone who could hardly say anything else.But in winning the Masters at Augusta on Sunday to end an 11-year major drought, Woods crept within three of catching Nicklaus. "Nobody wants their record to be broken, but I certainly wouldn't want Tiger to be hurt and not able to do it," Nicklaus told Golf Channel. "He's got me shaking in my boots!"Though the odds are still against 43-year-old Woods, who is racing against Father Time as well as a fused spine that could cause more problems, it is no longer inconceivable to imagine him winning three or four majors.The next two are at venues well suited to his game and where he has won -- the PGA Championship at Bethpage and the 2000 U.S. Open at Pebble Beach where he triumphed by a massive 15 strokes.Then it is the British Open, at Royal Portrush in Northern Ireland, where nobody in this year's field has played a tournament.MAJOR RECORDHis peers think Sunday's victory could loosen the dam wall, if not completely open the floodgates.Rickie Fowler and Justin Thomas, neighbours in south Florida who often play with Woods, expressed a mixture of excitement and trepidation."It keeps 18 (majors) in play," Fowler told a small group of reporters amid what for Augusta National amounted to frenzied scenes outside the clubhouse as thousands of spectators congregated hoping to catch a glimpse of the new champion."I don't doubt that this is going to be his most special one yet. To get his 15th after a long wait, after a lot of years away from competitive golf, being in a position where he wasn't sure he was going to play again, it's cool stuff."Thomas acknowledged he had needed to be convinced Woods could win another major."I thought today was going to be big in how he handled it," said the 2017 PGA Championship winner.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — The Tiger Woods major watch, stagnant for so long that it had almost been abandoned, is back on and Jack Nicklaus might yet be proved correct.As the years ticked by from 2008 and an injury-riddled Woods got stuck for more than a decade on 14 major titles, four short of Nicklaus's record, the "Golden Bear" kept saying he still thought his mark was in jeopardy.Such talk, while Woods battled a potentially career-ending back injury, was widely dismissed as little more than politeness from someone who could hardly say anything else.But in winning the Masters at Augusta on Sunday to end an 11-year major drought, Woods crept within three of catching Nicklaus. "Nobody wants their record to be broken, but I certainly wouldn't want Tiger to be hurt and not able to do it," Nicklaus told Golf Channel. "He's got me shaking in my boots!"Though the odds are still against 43-year-old Woods, who is racing against Father Time as well as a fused spine that could cause more problems, it is no longer inconceivable to imagine him winning three or four majors.The next two are at venues well suited to his game and where he has won -- the PGA Championship at Bethpage and the 2000 U.S. Open at Pebble Beach where he triumphed by a massive 15 strokes.Then it is the British Open, at Royal Portrush in Northern Ireland, where nobody in this year's field has played a tournament.MAJOR RECORDHis peers think Sunday's victory could loosen the dam wall, if not completely open the floodgates.Rickie Fowler and Justin Thomas, neighbors in south Florida who often play with Woods, expressed a mixture of excitement and trepidation."It keeps 18 (majors) in play," Fowler told a small group of reporters amid what for Augusta National amounted to frenzied scenes outside the clubhouse as thousands of spectators congregated hoping to catch a glimpse of the new champion."I don't doubt that this is going to be his most special one yet. To get his 15th after a long wait, after a lot of years away from competitive golf, being in a position where he wasn't sure he was going to play again, it's cool stuff."Thomas acknowledged he had needed to be convinced Woods could win another major."I thought today was going to be big in how he handled it," said the 2017 PGA Championship winner.
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. — The celebration was muted, even if Pebble Beach Golf Links was at its most radiant on Monday morning, with clear skies and bright sunshine casting the Pacific Ocean, the 18th hole and Phil Mickelson in an exquisite light. Mickelson turned to Paul Casey, the player he had vanquished to win his fifth Pebble Beach Pro-Am title after a lengthy weather delay, to thank him for helping produce the sublime stagecraft.With Casey carrying a three-stroke lead into the final round, Mickelson was forced to bear down over the final 18, and he produced a seven-under 65 in the final round. Mickelson’s 72-hole total was 19-under 268, three strokes better than Casey, a friend and fellow Arizona State alumnus.So focused was Mickelson during the last round that he tried to persuade Casey and tournament officials to finish the final two holes amid fading light Sunday evening.Casey, who ended up winning the team event with his amateur partner, Don Colleran, declined to play on, and after they both finished with a par and birdie on the final holes in front of a robust crowd of early risers the next morning, Mickelson gave credit where it was due.“Paul made the tough call, but it was the right decision,” Mickelson said, adding, “Sometimes I just get in my own little bubble and I don’t see the big picture.”Mickelson’s decision-making in the caldron of competition can sometimes be a liability, as was evident in his collapse on the final hole of the 2006 U.S. Open at Winged Foot — or more recently, in his decision to one-time a moving putt during the third round of last year’s U.S. Open at Shinnecock Hills.But in closing out his 44th PGA Tour victory this week, Mickelson, 48, was a study in restraint. After his birdie putt at the 18th hole dropped, he picked the ball out of the hole as though he were retrieving a package from his front stoop. It was Mickelson’s second victory in nearly a year — he won the World Golf Championships event in Mexico City last March — and his first on U.S. soil in 2,199 days, since he captured the 2013 Waste Management Phoenix Open.Any victory is special at Pebble Beach, a historic venue with personal resonance for Mickelson and his family, but he hopes a more meaningful celebration on the 18th green awaits him in June, for the 119th U.S. Open — the only major tournament that Mickelson has not won.Can he strike gold twice at Pebble Beach in the same year? Two men have proved it’s possible; Jack Nicklaus in 1972, on his way to a seven-victory season, and Tiger Woods in 2000, when he won nine PGA Tour events. Nicklaus was in his 30s in 1972 and Woods in his 20s in 2000, both at the peak of their powers.Mickelson will turn 49 on the final day of this year’s U.S. Open, and a win would make him the oldest men’s major champion, surpassing Julius Boros, who was 48 when he won the 1968 P.G.A. Championship. Mickelson’s younger brother and caddie, Tim, suggested people discount Mickelson’s chances at their peril.“He’s won twice now in the last 11 months,” Tim Mickelson said, adding, “Obviously it shows he can win still.”Mickelson’s game appears to be aging as well as did the bottle of 1990 Romanée-Conti wine that he drank from the Claret Jug after winning the 2013 British Open. He has a second and a first in his last three starts — with a missed cut at the Phoenix Open sandwiched in between. The resurgence of Mickelson and the 43-year-old Woods has made the men’s game infinitely more compelling.“I believe that if I play my best, if Tiger plays his best, it’s good enough to win on any week,” Mickelson said, adding, “I just think that both myself and Tiger are going to have a really, really good year.”Mickelson and Woods both have found their way to the winner’s circle more recently than either Jordan Spieth or Rory McIlroy have. Like Mickelson, Spieth and McIlroy are each one major title from completing a career Grand Slam. McIlroy, 29, will get his opportunity first, at the Masters in April. Spieth’s turn will come next, at the P.G.A. Championship in May.And then the spotlight will settle like a laser beam on Mickelson, who played his first major as a pro at the 1992 U.S. Open at Pebble Beach. He noted that this year marked the 100th anniversary of his maternal grandfather’s debut as a pre-teen caddie at Pebble Beach, where he made 25 cents a round.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Justin Harding of South Africa spent most of his Masters debut Thursday atop the leaderboard, and that's not an unusual position for him over the past year.No one else at Augusta National can claim five victories and three runner-up finishes since the last Masters. Then again, few Masters competitors were in the Lombard Insurance Open or the Royal Swazi Open.The biggest win of his career so far was the Masters — in Qatar, not Georgia. Harding moved into the top 50 of the world ranking to secure his first Masters invitation with a runner-up finish in the Kenya Open."I handled the emotions of the day quite well," Harding said after opening with a 3-under 69.And for one day, it was a reminder that winning anywhere in the world means a player is doing something right.He stood out as an example of why the PGA Tour believes some other tours might be getting too many world ranking points based on weaker fields. This has nothing to do with Harding. All he has done is play tournaments, and the 33-year-old who competed collegiately at Lamar outside Houston is playing the best golf of his life.He ended 2017 at No. 712 in the world. He goes into the Masters at No. 49.In the last year, he has won twice on the Sunshine Tour (one was a 54-hole event), twice on the Asian Tour and once on the European Tour (Qatar Masters).He made his American debut two weeks ago in the Dell Match Play, and while he didn't advance out of his group, he managed to beat Matt Fitzpatrick and Luke List, while losing to Rory McIlroy.Most of these courses are new to him, just like Augusta National.So when Harding was reminded of his rookie status at the Masters, and how it has been 40 years since a newcomer won a green jacket, he wasn't bothered."It's pretty much how I've been playing for the last 15 months," Harding said. "I'm seeing the golf course for the first time almost every week. So I'm not taking any real demons, any bad shots or any bad memories into them, I suppose."He knows Augusta National a little better from watching the Masters over the years. He has an idea how to attack or avoid certain pins."We executed our plan and played away from flags when we needed to, counted on a good putter, and that certainly worked for the most part today," he said.Only one of his five birdies came on a par 5, at No. 15, and it required a wedge off a severe slope and to about 7 feet, which he rapped in with his long putter. He dropped a shot on the beefy par-4 fifth and at the last when he failed to get up-and-down from a bunker.
HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. — Shane Lowry was convinced his game was on the rise, despite his poor scoring. He finally showed that Thursday in the RBC Heritage, shooting a 6-under 65 to take a one-shot lead.Trey Mullinax, Daniel Berger, Luke List, Ryan Moore and Ryan Palmer were tied for second.Top-ranked Dustin Johnson, coming off a second-place tie at Masters last week, rallied with two birdies in his final seven holes for a 68, leaving him three shots back.Lowry had not broken 70 in a stroke-play event since a 67 in the third round at the AT&T Pebble Beach Pro Am in early February on his way to missing the cut. The Irishman missed three more cuts in the past five weeks, including going 78-73 to end his Masters after two rounds.Things changed for Lowry at Harbour Town Golf Links, where he birdied three of his first six holes. He made three more birdies on his back nine."My scores haven't been great as of late," Lowry said. "But I felt like I've been playing OK. So maybe this is a reward for the perseverance."Palmer drove the green on his final hole, the par-4 ninth, and was about 12 feet away from catching Lowry with an eagle. But the putt slid 2 feet past and he tapped in for a birdie.A group of eight, headed by Patrick Cantlay, was two strokes back at 67. Cantlay finished ninth at the Masters helped by a 64-68 weekend. Johnson led 12 players tied for 15th .The tournament, which typically struggles to attract a quality field the week following the Masters, was packed with star power with11 of the world's top 30 players entered. A couple, however, showed that fatigue that comes from a grueling, pressure-filled week at Augusta National.Xander Schauffele, ninth in the world, followed up his tie for second last week with an even-par 71 at Harbour Town. Seventh-ranked Francesco Molinari , who held a two-stroke lead at Augusta with seven holes left, struggled to a 3-over 74, which was also his final round score at the Masters.Masters winner Tiger Woods, who has played in just one RBC Heritage in 1999, was off.Molinari said his challenge this week was to find a spark to pick him back up after his Masters letdown. Instead, "I made too made too many unforced mistakes," he said. "But it is what it is."Lowry, whose only PGA Tour win came in 2015 at the WCG-Bridgestone Invitational, got things going quickly on his second hole, the 11th, when he put his approach to 19 feet and made the birdie putt. He stuck an iron to 8 feet on the next hole and made that, too. Lowry stuffed his third shot to 3 feet on the par-5 15th for a third birdie.
HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. — Francesco Molinari feels worn out after collapsing on the final nine at the Masters last week and is looking to conjure up the mental energy to compete at the RBC Heritage.Molinari, the reigning British Open champion, carried a two-stroke lead with seven holes left before a pair of uncharacteristic mistakes. He landed shots in the water on the 12th and 15th holes for two double-bogeys at Augusta National that dropped him from contention into a tie for fifth, two shots behind winner Tiger Woods. Molinari acknowledged Wednesday that he is still seeking the spark to move past last Sunday and get him going at Harbour Town Golf Links."You try," he said. "You're never quite sure how long that's going to take."Molinari won't have long if he plans to contend. He faces another stacked field that includes Masters' runner ups and Dustin Johnson and Xander Schauffele, along with Webb Simpson, who finished tied with Molinari.In all, 11 of the top 30 players in the world, led by No. 1 Johnson, will tee it up to start Thursday.Woods, who has only played in one RBC Heritage in 1999, is off this week.Molinari said his mistakes were straightforward and easy enough to diagnose with a bad swing on the par-3 12th and a bad choice on the part-5 15th."But more than that, my concern is just having the mental energies to perform this week and be competitive against a really strong field. That will be the challenge for me," he said. Molinari, 36, has been a revelation, especially in majors, the last two seasons. He's posted four top six finishes, including his British Open win at Carnoustie last July, over his past six major tournaments after never finishing better than ninth in his first 32 such appearances.Johnson was pleased with his performance at Augusta, despite missing a birdie putt on the 72nd hole that might have tied him with Woods."Obviously, one stroke, definitely could've found that somewhere," Johnson said. "But all in all, it was a good week and I played well when I needed to."Johnson, a South Carolina native, returned to Harbour Town last year for the first time in almost a decade and finished tied for 16th, his best RBC Heritage showing in three appearances. The speculation on Johnson's extended absence are similar to theories about why Woods does not play here — tight, unforgiving fairways where positioning shots is as important as bombing them a long way."If I'm playing well, I enjoy any golf course," Johnson countered. "If I'm hitting the ball where I want to, no matter what type of course it is, I like it. This is the kind of golf I grew up playing. It's something I'm used to. Last year, I had some success and I'm looking to have some more success this year."Simpson, too, believes his strong play at the Masters can continue this week. One of his two top-five career finishes at Harbour Town came last year.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Jason Day began the Masters by throwing his back out while leaning down to kiss his daughter on the practice green.He played his way onto the leaderboard a day later after receiving a scolding from his wife."It's the Masters, you need to suck it up," Day said his wife, Ellie, told him Friday morning.Day, who has a history of being bothered by medical issues, did better than just sucking it up. He went out and shot a 5-under 67 to move into a tie for the second-round lead.And that had him feeling a lot better."I can't complain about it too much," Day said. "She's birthed three children and I haven't, so she's a lot stronger as a person than me with regards to pain, and I just hit a little white golf ball around a course."Day birdied all the par-5s on Augusta National to get to 7-under-par going into the weekend. That followed a 2-under 70 the day before, when Day said he injured himself kissing his daughter just a few minutes before walking to the first tee.Day's trainer followed him around the course in the opening round, giving him treatment at one point as he lay down on the second tee box. Day said he briefly considered pulling out of the tournament but decided to play in hope his back would loosen up.Exercise and treatment helped enough that he was relatively pain free in the second round, and Day took advantage. He was particularly effective on the reachable par-5s, making birdie on all four after birdieing three the day before."The whole goal is to try and take advantage of the par 5s here this week," Day said. "The par 3s can be difficult at times, and then some of the par 4s, you need to get through. But you know, over the last two days, I've played the par 5s nicely."Just being able to play this year has been difficult at times for Day, who withdrew from the Bay Hill tournament earlier this year because of back issues.He does stretches and therapy for 20-30 minutes at night and the same in the morning. He blows into a balloon to, he said, move his rib cage into proper position.And he deals with the negative fallout on social media when he leaves a golf tournament because of medical issues. At the age of 31 that's happened nine times already, and that doesn't include when he collapsed on the ninth green in the opening round of the U.S. Open in 2015 because of vertigo.After his withdrawal at Bay Hill someone posted a photo on social media of Day walking around with his family at Disney World the next day."Pain is a funny thing, it goes up and down, and everybody's pain threshold is different," he said. "Someone that is in a lot of pain might feel, you know, something totally different compared to me, so it's hard. Every day I feel like I wake up with some sort of aches, you know, and I think you just kind of learn to live with it and you just go along the way."
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Major winners Francesco Molinari, Louis Oosthuizen, Brooks Koepka, Jason Day and Adam Scott shared top spot at the Masters on Friday at the end of the second round, but it was Tiger Woods who commanded the spotlight once again at Augusta National.Woods brought the roars back to the famed venue with a brilliant four-under-par 68, putting himself on track for a fifth Green Jacket. At six-under-par 138, the American is just one shot off the leaders heading into 'moving day'.After an ordinary outward nine featuring three birdies offset by a pair of bogeys, Woods embarked on one of his trademark charges, carding three birdies after the turn to shoot up the leaderboard."I feel like I played my own way back into the tournament," said Woods. "I was just very patient today, felt very good to be out there doing what I was doing."This is now three straight majors that I've been in the mix and so it's good stuff."The stage is now set for an extraordinary weekend as Woods attempts to slip into his first Green Jacket since 2005 and claim his first major since 2008.Woods has made huge strides since returning from back fusion surgery nearly two years ago, collecting his 80th career PGA Tour title at last season's ending Tour Championships.However, nothing less than a 15th major victory will quell talk of an unfulfilled comeback. It would also reignite his pursuit of Jack Nicklaus's record haul of 18 majors.On Friday, it was like old times as the 43-year-old turned up the buzz with each shot, the roars echoing across Augusta National when Woods rolled in a long birdie putt at 15 and continued until he walked off the 18th where his birdie putt clung to the lip leaving him a tap-in par.The Woods show overshadowed everything else.Any other time, a hobbled Day might have been the story after getting up off the deck to shoot five-under 67.Barely able to walk after throwing out his back bending over to kiss his daughter on the practice range on Thursday, the battling Australian somehow turned in a near flawless scorecard, with six birdies and a single bogey."Pain is a funny thing, it goes up and down, and everybody's pain threshold is different," said Day, the 2015 PGA Championship winner. "Someone that is in a lot of pain might feel something totally different compared to me, so it's hard. 
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Jordan Spieth has become an afterthought on the PGA Tour.Even at the course where he usually plays so well.Adding another entry to his yearlong slump, Spieth struggled to a 3-over 75 Thursday in the opening round of the Masters and was a whopping nine shots off the lead. Not exactly the sort of start he was looking for at a major championship that he won in 2015, where he's twice been a runner-up and finished third another time, a big reason he calls it "my favorite tournament in the whole world."Up to now, Spieth's worst showing at this place was a tie for 11th in 2017.Making the cut is his main priority at the moment.Spieth's misery was epitomized at the par-3 sixth hole, where he pushed his tee shot right of the green and followed with a terrible pitch, the ball rolling back off the front. He ran the chip 8 feet past the cup and missed the putt for a double bogey.It was more of the same at the ninth.Spieth's approach to the tiered green caught the front slope and rolled back into the fairway. The Texan tried to pitch it up with his third shot, only to come up short again, watching helplessly as the ball rolled back to where he was standing in what anyone watching at home probably thought was a replay. He finally kept one on the green with his next swing but settled for his third bogey on the front side.Up to now, Spieth's wedge game had been the only thing keeping him somewhat in the game.On a sunny day at Augusta National, that seemed to abandon him as well.Spieth pulled things together somewhat after the turn, stringing together a bunch of pars to go with a birdie at the par-3 16th, when he stuck his tee shot 8 feet from the flag and rolled in the putt. But all that did was keep him from eclipsing the worst score of his Masters career.While it may have seemed strange to the casual fan to see Spieth struggling so mightily, this was really nothing new.Since his third-place showing at last year's Masters, when he finished two shots behind Patrick Reed, Spieth has managed only one top-10 finish — and that's when he fell apart in the final round of the British Open. The 25-year-old Texan bumbled his way to a 76 that put him four shots in arrears of winner Francisco Molinari, who certainly played well enough to win but benefited mightily from Spieth's collapse.Turns out, that performance is the highlight of Spieth's past year.In 21 other stroke-play events, he's missed the cut six times and finished an average of 14 shots behind the winner in the other tournaments.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — As the man in the green jacket recounted the incredulous events of the past week, Corey Conners cocked his head to one side and smiled ever so slightly.Almost as if he couldn't believe it, either.A little over a week ago, Conners snatched the last spot in the Valero Texas Open by the skin of his teeth. Then he won the tournament with 10 birdies in the final round, claiming the last opening at the Masters.So here he is at Augusta National.Ready to compete for a green jacket."A special week, a crazy week," Conners said. "Things are good."Certainly, the 27-year-old Canadian wasn't thinking about the Masters on his way to San Antonio, where his first — and, really, only priority — was the chance to earn a much-needed paycheck. Because he was outside the top 125 in the FedEx Cup standings, he had to earn his way into the Texas Open during Monday qualifying.Up to 100 players go at it for 18 holes during Monday qualifying, with the top four finishers getting into the actual tournament. Conners went to the final hole needing a 20-foot birdie putt just to get into a six-man playoff for the last of those spots. He made the putt, and then poured in another birdie on the first of the extra holes to vanquish the other five contenders.Dramatic stuff indeed.Though, in all honesty, no one was paying much attention. Since 1980, only four Monday qualifiers on the PGA Tour had gone on to win the tournament.Make it five.Conners' performance was impressive. His wife, Malory, even became a bit of a celebrity for her reactions while lugging a cup of white wine."She's been my biggest fan for years and my biggest supporter," Conners said. "I'm really lucky to have her by my side. It's pretty cool to see her in the spotlight a little bit. Her reactions were awesome. You can see how much she cares about what I'm doing, and it means a lot to me. It was pretty cool. She got a lot of messages and gained a lot of followers on social media, so she was pretty pumped about that."Count Justin Rose among those new-found fans."I loved the cameras being on her and you could tell what a big moment it was for the two of them," the world's top-ranked player said. "It was very special to see those stories out there because winning is difficult and it's nice to see it when it does change someone's life."
Dustin Johnson shot his second consecutive bogey-free round to build a two-shot lead at 11-under-par 131 after two rounds of the Mexico Championship in Mexico City.Trailing Rory McIlroy by one shot entering the second round, Johnson found himself four shots back after McIlroy birdied three of his first four holes. But Johnson, who had a putt for birdie on every hole, continued his steady play at Chapultepec Golf Club while McIlroy ran into midround trouble, finishing Friday in a tie for second at 9 under with Matt Kuchar (67).Because McIlroy got into the clubhouse first with his 1-under 70 on Friday, he will be paired with Johnson in the final group on Saturday. Kuchar will be paired with Sergio García (66), who is tied for fourth place with Tommy Fleetwood at 7 under. Fleetwood tied for the low round of the day with his 65 despite missing a short putt on No. 17.Ian Poulter (68) and Cameron Smith (67) are another shot off the pace. Tiger Woods was one shot off the low round of the day with his 66, which vaulted him 17 spots and into a five-tie for eighth place at 5 under.No one had a bigger bounceback Friday than Phil Mickelson, the defending champion, who is tied for 39th. He moved up 31 spots by matching Fleetwood’s 65, and his 14-stroke improvement from the previous day was the largest single-round bounce-back in his 600 career PGA Tour events.Johnson has not had any such turbulence through the first two days. While acknowledging Chapultepec had narrow fairways, he said the tree-lined holes kept him focused, and Johnson carded four birdies in posting a 67 on Friday.He hit only half of the fairways in the second round, but he posted bogey-free rounds during the first two rounds of an event for the first time in his career.“I think I have a very good game plan,” Johnson told reporters. “I don’t really play too aggressive here, but when you can, I try to be aggressive. And try to get myself some good looks at birdie, but off the tee, I can’t be too aggressive.”Johnson has now been in the top 10 after nine of his past 10 rounds at the event, which is contested more than 7,000 feet above sea level and features many players hitting their long irons more than 300 yards.“I just enjoy playing this kind of golf,” Johnson told the Golf Channel. “It makes you focus; you’ve got to think. You’re doing a lot of calculations with the numbers and trying to figure out how far the ball actually is going to go. I enjoy it.”It looked early on as if McIlroy might run away and hide. He was 11 under when he took a rip at the green on the par-5 sixth hole with his second shot. But McIlroy’s ball found the water, and he wound up with a bogey.He still held a one-shot lead when he stood over a birdie putt on the ninth hole. Having been perfect on all 24 putts inside 10 feet for the week to that point, McIlroy’s attempt lipped out. He also missed the comeback putt for bogey and suddenly found himself looking up at Johnson on the scoreboard.McIlroy did birdie the 14th hole to get into that powerhouse final group on Saturday.“We’ve still got 36 holes to go,” Johnson said. “I feel like I’m in a good position going into the weekend, but a two-shot lead is not very much, especially not around here.”Woods fared much better in just his second professional round in Mexico, improving by five shots over his first-round score. That included a shot from a fairway bunker that sliced around a tree and came a foot or two from holing out.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Tiger Woods completed one of sport's greatest comebacks to end an 11-year major title drought at the Masters on Sunday by claiming a fifth Green Jacket.A gritty two-under 70 clinched a one-shot victory over Dustin Johnson, Brooks Koepka and Xander Schauffele and earned the 43-year-old a 15th major title that many thought would never come and instantly sparked talk of Woods making a run at Jack Nicklaus's record of 18 majors.Not since the 2008 U.S. Open had Woods hoisted a major trophy and the last of his four Augusta titles came in 2005. But after a beaming Woods slipped on his fifth Green Jacket, he will be aware that Sunday's win has brought him tantalizingly close to another Nicklaus record - that of six Augusta titles.The victory also marked the first time Woods had reached the winner's circle at major without leading after 54 holes and broke Gary Player's record (13 years) for the longest gap between Masters wins. It also gave him 81 PGA Tour titles, one away from the career record held by Sam Snead.Woods's girlfriend Erica Herman, mother Kultida and two children Sam and Charlie watched while a massive gallery roared as he marched up to the 18th green to put the finishing touches on a milestone victory.When his final tap in bogey putt disappeared into the cup, Woods delivered one of his trademark fist pumps and then raised both arms in the air while screaming in absolute delight as the crowd chanted, "Tiger, Tiger, Tiger".He then quickly spotted his family and raced over to hug his children before making his way to the scorers room while being congratulated by his fellow golfers who lined the way."I was just trying to plod my way along the golf course all day," said Woods. "When I tapped the putt in, I don’t know what I did but I know I screamed.FULL CIRCLE"To have my kids there – it’s come full circle. My dad was here in 97 (when he won his first Masters) and now I’m the dad with two kids there."Along with coping with a number of injuries over the past decade, Woods also had to deal with the damage done from a very public and scandalous divorce and an embarrassing DUI arrest.Woods's return to the top garnered praise from world leaders and sporting greats alike, with United States president Donald Trump and his predecessor Barack Obama both offering congratulations via social media."Congratulations to @TigerWoods," tweeted Trump, who earlier this year played golf with Woods. "A truly Great Champion!"
AUGUSTA, Ga. — The Masters is the major that Jason Day has dreamed of winning since he turned to golf as a teenager to escape an almost certain future working in a meatpacking plant in his native Australia. Day had to be plenty tough to overcome his impoverished beginnings, so it is strange that he has become known on the PGA Tour for his fragility.Day has scaled the men’s world rankings, but he has also faced the depths of discomfort in the majors. Sometimes he has managed the pain, sometimes not. He withdrew during the second round of the 2012 Masters because of an ankle injury, but soldiered on at the 2015 United States Open despite having vertigo, tying for ninth. He has played through a variety of aches, pains and illnesses, and he won the 2015 P.G.A. Championship. Then for a few frightening minutes this week, it seemed as if Day’s Masters destiny would be another painful WD.Shortly before he made his ninth start at Augusta National, Day leaned down to kiss his toddler daughter and tweaked his back. He has felt pain in the area all year, and on the second hole on Thursday, he had to have his back worked on by his chiropractor before he could continue.At that point, his goal of winning the Masters gave way to merely trying to complete 18 holes. And yet, somehow, some way, Day not only survived, he thrived. After 36 holes, he is tied for the lead at seven under par. It turns out, he was so focused on his back, his ambition to win was pushed to the back of his mind, freeing him to post scores of two-under 70 and a second-round 67.“Augusta National, the Masters, everything that goes on this week, how big it is, and the distraction of wanting to win this tournament so bad, and sometimes it is almost a blessing in disguise,” Day said, referring to his injury. “It just brings down the expectations of going out there and trying too hard.”People behind the ropes mutter, even at the Masters, where the rules of decorum are included in the spectator guide. Day’s mother, Dening, who made the trip from Australia to watch him play, followed him during the first round. She decided to stay behind in her room and watch Friday’s action on television, in part because it upset her to hear patrons calling her son a big baby and the like.Day has learned to turn a deaf ear to the naysayers. Last month, Day’s lower back flared up with pain at the Arnold Palmer Invitational, where he is a former champion, causing him to withdraw a few holes into his first round.Day and his wife, Ellie, took their three young children to Disney World the next day, and a family photograph ended up on social media. That drew criticism from people who wondered how he could pull out of a golf tournament one day, only to show up at an amusement park the next.Day said later that he didn’t go on any rides but walked around the park to loosen his back, with the blessing of his doctors. Speaking before his next start, the Players Championship, where he tied for eighth, Day explained why he ignored the opinions of those outside his inner circle.If he allows himself to be drawn into reacting, he said, “You don’t gain anything from it, other than it makes you look sour or angry or bitter.”Day does listen to his wife of 10 years. He woke up on Friday in the recreational vehicle that is their house on wheels and was moping because his back felt sore. His wife told him that this was the Masters and that he needed to tough it out mentally.Her words stung, but only for a second. Then he performed a mental reboot, because of course his wife was right. And she walks the walk; Ellie Day covered all 18 holes of his first round on foot after slipping and bruising her arm and leg during Wednesday’s par-3 contest.“She’s birthed three children and I haven’t, so she’s a lot stronger as a person than me with regards to pain,” Day said with a laugh, adding, “She was trying to get me ready for today, and it ultimately did.”Day had more work on his back before he hit the practice range and felt good to go. He birdied all four par 5s in his six-birdie, one-bogey round. He was powered by grit, but also by anti-inflammatory pills.Day, 31, acknowledged that he also has taken several cortisone shots this year to be able to play. They are short-term solutions that don’t address the problem of his chronic back injury.
Tony Finau put a lucky 13th ball in his bag for his opening round of one-under-par 71 on Thursday at the Masters.Along with the four sleeves of three balls that he typically carries, Finau had one with the Augusta National logo signed by his idol, Billy Casper.Casper, the 1970 Masters champion, became something of a Finau fan years ago, when they met in Utah, their shared home state. He died at 83 three years before Finau, 29, made his Masters debut, managing a tie for 10th last year despite sustaining a high-ankle sprain while celebrating a hole in one during the Wednesday par-3 contest.After watching Finau gamely make his way around Augusta National, a friend, Larry Olsen, gave him the ball signed by Casper.“After last year’s incident,” Finau said, referring to his injury, “Larry felt Billy would have wanted me to have it.”For nearly a year, the ball sat on a shelf in Finau’s trophy room in his home near Salt Lake City. He decided to put it in his bag for this event to honor Casper, who loved the Masters, and also as a talisman.“Maybe Casper the ghost will appear, and we’ll get that green jacket,” Finau, who is ranked 15th in the world, said Thursday with a laugh.Finau evoked Casper’s memory by scrapping through the first round in what his caddie, Gregory Bodine, described as “a nervy start.”Finau found fairway bunkers off the tee at Nos. 1 and 2, hit out of the sand on four of the first five holes and somehow made the turn at par. He got up and down for par at the fifth hole from a bunker behind the green and almost chipped in on the par-3 sixth after a bad tee shot.“I think those were the huge momentum changers throughout the round that you need to post a good number,” said Finau, who offset his bogey at the par-3 fourth with a birdie at the par-5 eighth to make the turn in 36 strokes.“I was quite pleased, actually, to be teeing off at 10 at even par,” he said. He had birdies on both the par 5s on the back nine and, after bogeying 17th, just missed a birdie at 18 to finish the day five strokes off the lead.One of Casper’s 11 children is certain that their father would have been impressed by Finau’s round.“Even though Tony hits the ball a huge distance, what Dad saw and really liked about his play was his course management and his ability to get the ball around the golf course,” Casper’s son Bob, the third oldest of the 11, said in a telephone interview. “Because those where things that Dad prided himself on in his game.”Finau recalled that Casper had once described his 18-hole playoff victory over Gene Littler at Augusta National as his “proudest moment.” He and Casper met for the first time at a golf event in Utah, where Casper kept a residence in addition to one in his native San Diego.Finau was 14 and showing great promise in the game, which he learned to play by swinging at targets on mattresses hung from the ceiling of his family’s garage in Salt Lake City. Finau’s hardscrabble beginnings and close family ties reminded Casper of himself.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Ed Sneed sat on a sofa in Butler Cabin at Augusta National looking as though he didn't know what hit him.He had a three-shot lead with three holes to play in the 1979 Masters and didn't do anything horribly wrong, except nothing went right. He finished with three straight bogeys and faced a sudden-death playoff with Fuzzy Zoeller and Tom Watson, which Zoeller won with a birdie on the second extra hole at No. 11.Arnold Palmer was conducting the interview in Butler Cabin and sympathized. So did Watson, who was sitting next to Sneed. Watson had lost in a three-way playoff the previous major at the PGA Championship, which cost him the career Grand Slam."I know what it feels like to be in that position," Watson said. "All the condolences in the world wouldn't fix what the hurt is right now inside of him. He'll have plenty of tournaments left. He's a great player. He showed it this week."There were other tournaments, sure, but Sneed played the Masters only three more times.He never got another chance.The hurt never really goes away."It's something that sticks with you," Sneed said from his home in Ohio. "I never won many tour events, but I'm remembered more for losing that one."At the Masters, he's not alone.The fabled green jacket is almost close enough to feel it slipped over the shoulders, and then it's gone. And for some, the opportunity never returns.Scott Hoch missed a 3-foot putt in a playoff in 1989 and lost to Nick Faldo on the next hole. Hoch at least had another chance six years later when he went into the final round one shot out of the lead, shot 73 and tied for fifth.Greg Norman is not the most frequent runner-up at the Masters, just the most famous. He had more than one opportunity.Not so for Chad Campbell in 2009, the first man out in a three-man playoff won by Angel Cabrera."It was early enough in my career, I felt like I was going to have a lot more opportunities to have a chance to win," said Campbell, missing the Masters this year for the ninth straight year.Not for Len Mattiace in 2003, who lost in a playoff to Mike Weir.
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. — Rory McIlroy’s Sunday drive at TPC Sawgrass was far from leisurely. He spent most of the final round of the Players Championship stuck in his lane in a logjam, pumping his brakes while players grew larger in his rearview mirror.Eddie Pepperell, who started Sunday six strokes behind McIlroy, caught him, and so, fleetingly, did Jhonattan Vegas, who also began the round six behind him. Early on, McIlroy, who himself began the day trailing Jon Rahm by one, was passed on the leader board by Abraham Ancer, who came from three off his pace. Down the stretch, Jim Furyk, who came from four back, inched ahead.In contrast to last year, when Webb Simpson squeezed all the drama from the finish with a four-stroke victory, Sunday was a knock-down-drag-out race to the wire, with eight players holding at least a share of the lead — including Vegas for 16 seconds — before McIlroy took command.McIlroy did not panic when he carded a double bogey on the fourth hole and made the turn in a one-over-par 37. While everyone around him spun out or ran out of road, McIlroy put together four birdies, against one bogey, on the back nine for a final-round two-under 70, good for a one-stroke victory.McIlroy, of Northern Ireland, finished at 16-under 272, one ahead of Furyk, who closed with a 67, and two in front of Pepperell (66) and Vegas (66). Rahm struggled to a 76 and ended up in a four-way tie for 12th at 11 under.The victory was McIlroy’s 15th on the PGA Tour, and his second in two years on St. Patrick’s Day weekend.“It’s not a bad weekend for me,” said McIlroy, who lifted his long-sleeve blue sweater to reveal, along with an impish grin, a green golf shirt.McIlroy showed little emotion after he two-putted for par on the last hole to close out the tournament in brisk, overcast and intermittently rainy conditions. His emotions, by design, have run the gamut from happy to content during each top-six finish in his first six starts of 2019.“Of course I desperately wanted the win today, but it’s just another day,” McIlroy said. “It’s just another step in the journey.”A decade has passed since McIlroy made his first start at Sawgrass, on the week that he turned 20. As he recalled with a laugh, he missed the cut that year while “getting kicked out of bars in Jax Beach for being underage. So I’ve come a long way.”But his transformation has been deeper than that. McIlroy said he had learned not to tie his self-identity to his scores.“One thing I used to do in the past is I’d let what I shot that day influence who I was or my mood,” McIlroy said, adding, “It’s something I’ve worked hard on because who I am as a person isn’t who I am as a golfer.”That TPC Sawgrass, in its return to March after an 12-year run in May, provided a fair test was made plain in the juxtaposition at the top of the long-hitting 29-year-old, McIlroy, and the length-challenged 48-year-old, Furyk.Furyk, who lives a short drive from the course, was one of the last players to earn his way into the field, and though he came up short in his bid for his first tour title since 2015, he had few complaints; the runner-up finish was his best showing in 23 starts in the event.“I haven’t put myself in the heat with a really good opportunity to win a golf tournament in a while and I missed it,” Furyk said. “I missed the nerves, I missed the excitement.”
AUGUSTA, Ga. — The 10th anniversary of the Thanksgiving night car crash that changed the course of golf history is months away. But as a smiling Tiger Woods exited the Augusta National Golf Club clubhouse on Tuesday to cheers and applause, it was not too soon to consider his renaissance since the fall from grace that began when his then wife chased her philandering husband from their home and he drove his S.U.V. into a neighbor’s tree.It also might be an occasion to observe how cultural status can be recouped with demonstrated, untiring perseverance. Woods kept showing up. There is power, too, in being a wildly popular sports figure transformed into an underdog who struck rock bottom: Two years ago, he was charged with driving under the influence as he sat asleep in a painkiller haze at the wheel of his car with the motor running. He later pleaded guilty to reckless driving.Whatever the lens to view Woods’s current fate, it helps to revisit a scene in 2010 at Woods’s first competitive appearance after five months of blaring tabloid headlines about extramarital affairs that forever besmirched his legacy. The scene was similar to Tuesday’s, with Woods emerging from the Augusta National clubhouse for the 30-yard walk to the first tee, where he began a practice round on the eve of the Masters tournament.But in 2010, a stone-faced Woods was met not with shouts and clapping but with an eerie stillness. Only a few hundred spectators had gathered for his 8 a.m. tee time, and they noiselessly parted without comment to permit him access to the golf course.No four-time Masters champion had ever been treated with such indifference at Augusta National, nor will one likely be again. The pretournament conjecture was that Woods would be a target of heckling and snide comments. Instead, he received the silent treatment.Perhaps Woods believed the famous serenity of Augusta National’s pristine grounds could bring some tranquillity to his then rancorous life, but he appeared only nervous and uneasy.His opening tee shot rocketed into the woods left of the first fairway, and he marched off in haste after the uncommonly ugly outcome.Woods had reason for feeling especially anxious. A glut of security officers flanked him on every step, including armed sheriffs, unarmed guards and plainclothes police officers. The whirling of television news helicopters circling overhead provided a constant noisy soundtrack to his presence.Worse, a day earlier, Billy Payne, then the Augusta National chairman, had delivered a harsh rebuke, saying Woods did not live up to role model expectations and had “disappointed all of us, and more important, our kids and our grandkids.”All in all, not a great day for the world’s top-ranked golfer, who had won 14 major golf championships and was still expected to vault past the record, Jack Nicklaus’s 18.But the Augusta National scene on Tuesday found Woods humbled and changed in ways unimaginable from the 2010 Masters. Yes, he is still chasing a 15th major championship, but tellingly, he seems less frantic about that pursuit than ever. Asked if he would have expected such a lengthy major drought, Woods calmly answered, “Yeah, I would say that I wouldn’t have foreseen that, for sure.”He thought he would win more, he said, adding, “But unfortunately, I just didn’t do it.”Repeatedly, he acknowledged a new — or is it rediscovered? — embrace of the sport’s fans. He talked about the surging gallery that enveloped him on the concluding hole of last year’s Tour Championship, when he won his first PGA Tour event in five years, a triumph that seemed to eclipse the travail of four back operations and myriad off-course embarrassments.“I had chills,” he said of that gallery on 18 seven months ago.It was his 80th tour title, and yet Woods said of that victory, “I didn’t know if I could ever get there again, and lo and behold, I got there again.”
AUGUSTA, Ga. — The first time that Sergio García’s older brother, Victor, caddied for him at the Masters, García handed him his putter on the ninth hole of the Wednesday par-3 contest and watched him drain a 25-foot birdie attempt. More than a decade later, Victor is again inside the ropes at Augusta National with his brother, but this time he will be shepherding García through the 72-hole tournament, which began Thursday.For almost 20 years, García’s caddie was Glen Murray, who provided the temperamental García with a ballast of stability and steadiness. Never mind yardages and club selection; no course has ever tested García more than his own passionate, perfectionist and occasionally tortured self.So when García, 39, decided last spring to part ways with Murray, citing a need for independence as he ended one of the more enduring caddie-player collaborations, his challenge was to find someone whose strength was reading him more than reading greens.The split with Murray occurred a month after García missed the cut in his Masters title defense. He said he had made the move because he felt as if he had come to rely too much on Murray’s counsel.“I had a good friend caddying for me for 17 years, but now I feel like this is what I need,” García said, adding: “I’m taking ownership of my decisions. It helps me kind of deal with my mistakes better.”After the split, García considered some intriguing candidates, including one he already spends a lot of time with: his wife, Angela.She was a fine amateur player who finished her collegiate career at Texas. She knows what it takes to perform in the caldron of competition, and her resting state is cheerful, both ideal qualities for a caddie.“I think we would make a great team, I have no doubt, because the few times we get to play golf we have a lot of fun,” Angela García said recently.Over the years, a few wives have caddied in PGA Tour events for their husbands, most notably Justine Reed and Nicki Stricker. The former world No. 1 Lee Westwood won his first European Tour title in four years last fall with his girlfriend, Helen Storey, on his bag. She is now his full-time caddie.“We talked about it briefly,” García said, “but, no, I don’t want her to go through that.”Shortly before last year’s Masters, the couple welcomed their first child, daughter Azalea. “Ultimately, we kind of decided I’m a mom first and foremost,” Angela García said.It was probably for the best, she added. After all, there are stressful moments in golf tournaments, no matter how good the Garcías are at calmly working through their differences. “If he did something silly and I tried to help him, I wouldn’t know how that would go,” she said.As García was mulling his options, his wife suggested Mardy Fish, the retired tennis player who advanced as high as No. 7 in the men’s singles world rankings and won six career ATP titles.García’s friendship with Fish, an Olympic silver medalist, dates back more than a decade. Fish is an avid fan of golf, while García is a tennis fan, and over the years they bonded over their love for each other’s sports.They’ve seen each other through adversity. Fish was there for García after he broke up with the tennis star Martina Hingis, and García was with Fish at the 2012 United States Open when he withdrew just minutes before a fourth-round match against Roger Federer because of a racing heart. Fish was later diagnosed with an anxiety disorder.
Rory McIlroy went for the bold play, even if it turned out a little off line.Asked how he had dealt with four unfulfilled attempts to complete golf’s career Grand Slam, McIlroy offered a historical reference as perspective.“I guess I’ve become a lot more comfortable with the fact that I’m going to fail more times than I succeed at that certain conquest,” he said, pointing out that Abraham Lincoln even lost some elections. “He wound up being the president of the United States,” McIlroy said. “So I’ve still got a bit of time.”McIlroy knows the select fraternity he would join if he added a Masters to the titles he already won at the United States Open, British Open and P.G.A. Championship. The full set of majors has been captured by only five men, including Jack Nicklaus and Tiger Woods.Also this year, Jordan Spieth can achieve a career Grand Slam at next month’s P.G.A. Championship and Phil Mickelson can at the United States Open in June. But it’s McIlroy who is up first at Augusta National Golf Club in Georgia.“I know exactly the people I would be putting myself alongside,” he said. “It would be huge. But again, I can’t think about it that way.”He has lately been on a roll. Even for someone who seems to have plenty of time (McIlroy is 29), the momentum he brings into this year’s first major doesn’t come around often.Last month’s one-stroke victory at the Players Championship capped a run of six starts to open 2019 in which he finished no lower than sixth. He also reached the round of 16 at the WGC Match Play in March, eliminated on the 17th hole of a tense battle with Woods.“Right now it’s all Rory McIlroy,” said Paul Azinger, NBC’s lead golf analyst. “He’s in contention every week. We’ve criticized him whenever he didn’t win, then he goes ahead and wins the biggest event on the PGA Tour.”“You just get the feeling that it’s going to be a big Rory year.”Though McIlroy is No. 3 in the world rankings, behind Dustin Johnson and Justin Rose, no one has accumulated more ranking points since the calendar turned.“When his mind’s right and he’s putting good,” said Jason Day, who will also play at the Masters, , “I think he’s explosive.”McIlroy has shown an ability to pile up wins in bunches. He collected 14 of them worldwide from 2012 through 2015, including three of his four major championships. He was second on 12 other occasions during that span.That said, McIlroy’s current success has been marked by a different demeanor and he is calm as he considers the big picture. Tournament results can vary, but performance is the yardstick.“You’re not going to get frustrated playing good golf,” he said.
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. — At last week’s Arnold Palmer Invitational, Phil Mickelson carded a 68 in the first round while chewing gum. The next day, without gum, he sprayed his shots all over the Bay Hill course and shot a 78.A coincidence? Mickelson thinks not.To boost his cognitive functioning, Mickelson, 48, started chewing gum during competition in January at the Desert Classic — and tied for second. Two starts later, chewing gum as he walked, Mickelson clinched his 44th PGA Tour title.“The chewing aspect stimulates the frontal cortex,” said Mickelson, who couldn’t get his putter activated Thursday in the opening round of the Players Championship. Mickelson, the 2007 champion, had a four-putt from 25 feet on the par-3 third hole, which was his 12th of the round, for a triple-bogey 6 on his way to a two-over-par 74. That left him nine strokes behind the leaders, Tommy Fleetwood and Keegan Bradley, who each posted a 65.“It didn’t help much today,” Mickelson said with a rueful laugh. But, to the amusement of his peers, Mickelson has no plans to give up the gum.“I’ve seen him chomping on that gum, and I was wondering what he was doing,” Steve Stricker said. “Leave it to Phil, I guess, to come up with that.”There is some actual science to Mickelson’s assertions. Studies have shown that chewing gum is associated with improved alertness and the ability to process new information, though the results are far from definitive. A 2011 study by psychologists at St. Lawrence University found that students who chewed gum and then discarded it performed demanding cognitive tasks like repeating numbers backward and solving complex logic puzzles better than those who did not chew gum.Mickelson’s caddie and younger brother, Tim, said he could not speak to the science of gum chewing, but he could vouch for Mickelson’s improved focus. Last year, he said, Mickelson on occasion would ask him to pick a club for him to hit because he couldn’t gather his thoughts. An inability to focus hadn’t been an issue this year, Mickelson’s brother said.In the copycat world of professional golf, where players have turned their searching minds to mouth guards, tobacco chewing and copper bracelets as performance aids, could Mickelson’s success this year spawn other gum chewers?Any players tempted to make like Violet Beauregarde, the “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory” character who obsessively worked the same piece of gum for months at a time, should consider themselves warned. Serge Onyper, who co-wrote the St. Lawrence University study, noted in an email on Wednesday that those who chewed gum for five minutes before getting rid of it benefited compared with those who did not chew gum at all. But, he wrote, “those who chewed the gum throughout the cognitive tasks did not benefit compared to those who did not chew gum.”Mickelson, 48, said he chews two pieces per round, but would not divulge the type or brand. “It’s not on the market yet,” he said.Gum comes with and without sugar, with caffeine and, now, infused with cannabidiol, or CBD, which has been used to treat a variety of symptoms, including joint inflammation. It is categorized by the tour as a dietary supplement and is not prohibited, though players are advised to use extreme caution when using it and other supplements because, in general, there is no guarantee that what’s on the label is what’s in the product.Tiger Woods noted that Michael Jordan chewed gum when he played basketball and said he has chewed gum on occasion for a quick sugar boost. There have been other gum chewers in the game, notably Payne Stewart, a three-time major winner. In the 1980s, the golfer Hubert Green bestowed upon Tim Norris the nickname Pac-Man because he chomped gum the way the arcade game character gobbled ghosts.Paul Azinger, NBC’s lead golf analyst, described Norris, the 1982 Greater Hartford Open champion, as “the greatest gum chewer in the history of golf,” a distinction that made Norris chuckle when it was recently relayed to him.Norris described his gum chewing as “a nervous habit” and said he preferred the spearmint flavor “because it was green, and if I did accidentally drop it, it blended into the grass.”
Bob Friend, who learned how to pitch on lowly Pittsburgh Pirate teams of the early 1950s, then became one of the National League’s finest right-handers and an anchor of the team that stunned the Yankees in the thrilling 1960 World Series, was found dead on Sunday at his home in O’Hara Township, Pa., a suburb of Pittsburgh. He was 88.His death was announced by the Pirates. Friend’s son, Bob, told The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette that Friend had died of a “cardiac event” in his sleep.Friend won 197 games in his 16 major league seasons. But he lost 230 games, mostly for teams that struggled after Branch Rickey, the Pirates’ general manager, embarked on a rebuilding period.Friend had fine control and was exceptionally durable: He never had a sore arm and was never on the disabled list. He was the ace of a Pirates pitching staff that also featured his fellow right-handed starter Vern Law and the reliever Roy Face.Friend had his first winning season in 1955, his fifth year with the Pirates, when he altered his windup so he could hide the ball and his grip from batters until the last possible moment. The Pirates finished in last place that season, but Friend went 14-9 and became the first pitcher to lead the N.L. in earned run average on a basement team when he posted a 2.83 mark.Friend led the league in innings pitched twice, totaling almost 600 innings through 1956 and 1957, and led the N.L. in games started each season from 1956 to 1958. His best season came in 1958, when he had a 22-14 record, tying the Milwaukee Braves’ Warren Spahn for the league lead in wins. He was an All-Star in 1956, 1958 and 1960.“I had a real good sinker that carried me through most of the prime of my career,” Friend recalled in an interview with Clifton Parker for the Society for American Baseball Research. “I had also had a hard curve and a fair off-speed pitch, but it was the sinker more than anything else.”“I was able to pitch every third or fourth day for more than 10 years and never miss starts,” he said.Friend went 18-12 in the 1960 regular season while Law was 20-7. But coming off a heavy workload in September, Friend pitched poorly in the World Series against the Yankees.Friend started Game 2, but was lifted for a pinch-hitter in the bottom of the fourth inning after yielding three runs in a 16-3 trouncing by the Yankees; he earned the loss. (The Yankees outscored the Pirates 55-27 in the Series.)He was the starter again in Game 6, giving up five runs in two innings as the Yankees went on to even the Series. In Game 7 at Forbes Field, Friend relieved at the start of the ninth inning but left after yielding a pair of singles. The Yankees scored twice to tie the game, setting the stage for Bill Mazeroski’s bases-empty ninth-inning home run off Ralph Terry. Pittsburgh’s wild 10-9 victory gave the Pirates their first World Series championship in 35 years.Robert Bartmess Friend was born on Nov. 24, 1930, in Lafayette, Ind., and grew up in West Lafayette, the home of Purdue University. Friend’s father conducted local band concerts, and Bob began taking piano lessons as a child with thoughts of becoming a concert pianist.But he was a baseball and football star at West Lafayette High School and, while a freshman at Purdue, was signed by the Pirates’ organization before the 1950 season.After a year in the minors, Friend joined the Pirates in 1951. They finished in seventh place that year and in last place during the next four seasons under Rickey, who took over as general manager in Pittsburgh in 1950 and hoped to duplicate the success he had had building the Brooklyn Dodger teams that would dominate the N.L. for much of the 1950s.“I simply wasn’t ready to pitch in the major leagues, and for four years it was a terrible struggle,” Friend told The New York Times after he was traded to the Yankees in 1966.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Twenty-two years after Tiger Woods raised the curtain on golf’s version of the Broadway sensation “Cats,” he has set the stage for a spellbinding encore.With a five-under-par 67 in the third round at Augusta National on Saturday, Woods positioned himself for his first major victory since 2008, on the same Augusta National stage where he stole the show in 1997 with a record-breaking 12-stroke victory in his first major as a professional.Woods will enter the final round tied for second with Tony Finau, two strokes behind Francesco Molinari, who posted a 66 for a 54-hole total of 13-under 203.[The wait is over. After nearly 11 years, Tiger Woods has won another major.]In 1997, the 21-year-old Woods was a three-time United States Amateur champion who requested a winner’s green jacket that hung loosely on him because he expected to grow into it over the course of his career. Now 43, with 14 major titles and four back operations behind him, Woods is poised to do what no one — least of all, him — thought possible two years ago: continue to expand his legacy. With a victory, he would pull to three major titles behind Jack Nicklaus’s record 18.[Read how Tiger Woods pushed his body to the point of breakdown and then came back.]Before the 2017 Masters, Woods flew in for the Champions Dinner and spent the evening in terrible physical discomfort. So great was the pain in Woods’s lower back, he told one of his fellow diners: “I’m done. I won’t play golf again.”On the eve of this year’s tournament, Woods touched on that tough time in a speech after he accepted the Ben Hogan Award, presented to a player who has remained active in the game despite a physical handicap or serious injury or illness. He said he required a pain-relieving shot just to make it through the dinner two years ago, and traveled from Augusta National straight to the airport, for a flight to England to consult with a back specialist, who recommended back fusion surgery.Woods traveled to Texas that month for the operation, which he described it as “a last resort” after three less complex operations. His goal at the time, he said, was not to resume his winning ways in golf but to regain a quality of life that allowed him to play with his two children and engage in daily activities with minimal physical distress.Before Woods returned last year for his first competitive start at Augusta National since 2015, he described himself as “a walking miracle.” Woods tied for 32nd last year, a performance that he used as a launching pad to contend at the British Open, where he tied for sixth, and the P.G.A. Championship, where he finished second. Last September, Woods won his first P.G.A. Tour title since 2013, and his 80th over all, at the Tour Championship in Atlanta, a two-hour drive from Augusta National.If Woods is to win his fifth Masters title, he is going to have to vanquish a group of players who do not appear cowed by him. Molinari, 36, was paired with Woods in the final round of last year’s British Open and wrested the lead from him down the stretch to win his first major title.And lurking one stroke behind Woods and Finau is Brooks Koepka, who held off Woods to win the P.G.A. Championship. Everything Woods’s younger competitors know about winning, they learned in their formative years by watching him attack courses without fear or finesse.“He’s playing against guys that he kind of bred,” Finau said, adding: “The way he dominated and watching him growing up, it was like he was scared of nobody. So I think a lot of us try to be like him and try to be that way to where nothing on the golf course can scare us and our skills can showcase.”Finau, 29, who is the PGA Tour’s first full-time player of Samoan and Tongan descent, watched the telecast of Woods’s 1997 victory from his family’s home in Salt Lake City. Finau, who was 7, said that when he watched Woods become the first man of color to slip on the green jacket, he was inspired to take up golf.“I saw someone who had the same skin color as me,” Finau said in an interview last year. “As a kid, I could relate to that.”
AUGUSTA, Ga. — As Tiger Woods was making his stirring late charge up a bunched Masters leaderboard Friday, he was chasing a formidable cast of rivals that included six major golf championship winners.Any one of them could have tripped up Woods’s run at the lead as the tournament reached its halfway point.Instead, for one alarming moment, it appeared that a stumbling security official at Augusta National Golf Club might derail Woods’s most memorable Masters surge in years.After Woods hit a shot out of the trees left of the 14th hole, a sprinting uniformed guard, who was trying to control the crowd just behind Woods, slipped on wet grass and slammed into Woods’s right ankle. Woods recoiled and limped forward, hopping on his left foot several times before regaining his footing.But Woods, who grimaced but never looked back, kept striding toward the green. In fact, the episode seemed to spur him to greater heights.With the galleries around him cheering wildly, Woods birdied the 14th and 15th holes, and he had two choice opportunities in the closing holes to vault into the lead. While those birdie putts slid past the hole, Woods still managed a four-under-par 68 and a two-day score of six under that left him a shot off the tournament lead shared by five golfers.Jason Day, Brooks Koepka, Adam Scott, Francesco Molinari and Louis Oosthuizen — all major winners — were tied at seven under.[Read about how Jason Day is using pain to his advantage.]After his round, Woods played down the collision with the security official.With a smile, Woods said: “Accidents happen, and you move on. I’ve had galleries run over me. When you play in front of a lot of people, things happen. But it’s all good.”Woods insisted he was not injured in the accident, which looked a little like a base runner trying to take out an infielder at second on a double-play attempt.When pressed on whether he was physically sound for the Masters’ weekend rounds, Woods grinned and answered: “Yeah, other than having four knee surgeries and four back surgeries, I’m fine. Good to go.”On a day when most of the top scores were produced by golfers teeing off in the morning, with the sun out, Woods’s ascent up the leaderboard as an evening rainstorm drenched the golf course was something of a surprise.At one point, it seemed the poor weather could undermine Woods, as play was suspended just after he hit his tee shot to the menacing 12th green, about 5 feet behind the hole.When play resumed 29 minutes later, Woods, who admitted he grew stiff during the delay, missed the birdie putt. Then his short birdie putt on the 13th hole stopped an inch in front of the hole’s center. At the time, Woods was stuck at four under for the tournament.
LOS ANGELES — Matt Kuchar had heard enough. Battered by criticism that he had essentially stiffed a caddie who helped him win a tournament last November in Mexico, he took action to make amends on Friday, issuing a statement in which he apologized for his initial actions and also said he had now paid the caddie a good deal more money.In the 15-line statement, which was released while he was playing the rain-delayed first and second rounds of the Genesis Open in Los Angeles, Kuchar said he had now given the caddie, David Giral Ortiz, a much bigger sum than the $5,000 he originally paid him after capturing the first-place prize of $1.296 million at the Mayakoba Golf Classic.In issuing the statement, Kuchar clearly hoped to put an end to the bad tidings that had sullied his image and cast him as a tone-deaf American with a let-them-eat-cake attitude.“Golf is a game where we call penalties on ourselves,” Kuchar said in the statement. “I should have done that long ago and not let this situation escalate.”The statement did not specify how much more Kuchar had sent Ortiz’s way, but it appears an additional $45,000 was paid out.Ortiz had been asking for a total of $50,000, according to Marc Graubart, a Houston businessman working on the caddie’s behalf, and Kuchar, in his statement, said Ortiz had now been paid what he was seeking.Kuchar’s apology came at the end of a trying week for him, and after a challenging first round on Friday at the Riviera Country Club, where he heard the usual genial chants of “Kooooch” from some of his fans but also a number of barbs from others about his perceived parsimony.Kuchar, 40, has earned more than $45 million as a professional golfer, but his problems began when he won a tournament in Playa del Carmen, Mexico, that he had basically entered on a whim.In a typical PGA Tour arrangement, a caddie receives a flat rate of $1,500 for a tournament, which helps cover expenses, and a bonus worth 10 percent of the golfer’s winnings. For Ortiz, a local caddie who is also known as El Tucan, that would have amounted to about $130,000.Instead, Ortiz told Michael Bamberger of Golf.com, he and Kuchar had agreed on a $3,000 payment plus an unspecified amount of whatever money Kuchar won at the tournament.Kuchar, meanwhile, said he had promised Ortiz $1,000 if he missed the cut, $2,000 if he made the cut, $3,000 for a top-20 finish and $4,000 for a top-10 finish, with no specifications for how much more he would pay Ortiz if he finished first.Which Kuchar proceeded to do, ending a four-year winless drought. At that point, Kuchar gave Ortiz $5,000 — the $4,000 he said they had agreed upon for the top-10 finish and a $1,000 bonus. Kuchar confirmed that total to Golf.com and added, “For a guy who makes $200 a day, a $5,000 week is a really big week.”But the tone and content of that comment were quickly pounced on, particularly by people from outside the insular world of golf. And some golf fans weren’t too pleased by Kuchar’s attitude, either. As Kuchar walked down the first fairway on Friday morning, one fan stopped walking and shouted in Kuchar’s direction. “Frugal, just frugal,’’ the fan yelled. “I pay my caddie more.”The fan, Brent Weiss, who described himself as a kindergarten teacher, said Kuchar had been his favorite player. But not anymore.“How do you tip a caddie $1,000 when you’ve made $1.3 million?” Weiss said. “To me, I think that’s called discrimination.”
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. — The AT&T Pebble Beach Pro-Am never fails to rattle Darius Rucker’s nerves. This year though, Rucker, the three-time Grammy Award winning musician, had more to fret about than hitting a spectator or getting in the way of his pro partner, Kenny Perry.“Now you’re scared that somebody’s going to come call a rules violation on you with something that you don’t know about,” Rucker said before the tournament began last week.The pros are just as worried. The United States Golf Association and the R&A revised the sport’s rule book to simplify the game and speed up the pace of play. But so far the changes, which took effect at the start of 2019, have been harder to follow than a game of Simon Says.In the few weeks since the modifications took effect, players have repeatedly sought guidance from the nearest rules official, their caddies or pieces of paper tucked inside their golf bags, undermining for now, at least, the stated intention of making things simpler and faster.And it’s adding an extra bit of hesitancy to the pros’ trip through the course. During a rain-sodden second round at Pebble Beach on Friday, Hunter Mahan was forced to consult a tournament-issued rules sheet before touching his ball. “We thought we knew what the rule was,” Mahan said, “but there’s no clarity, so having an official or actually having it written down is the only true clarification.”One new rule has lowered the height from which players make a drop: it is now from the knees, rather than the shoulders, a change that the former men’s world No. 1 Adam Scott described as awkward. Whenever he bends over or squats with the ball, he can’t help but imagine rules officials assigned to monitor potential rules violations squinting at their screens, scrutinizing his release down to the inch.“They’ve just written more gray areas into the game that were not necessary,” said Scott, who won’t make a drop without asking his caddie or a nearby official if he has the height right.Even those enforcing the rules have been confused about how to interpret them. During the second round of the Phoenix Open earlier this month, Denny McCarthy was assessed a two-stroke penalty under Rule 10.2b(4), a new regulation that prohibits caddies from standing behind players as they line up for their shots.While McCarthy took a few practice swings, his caddie stood behind him. McCarthy stepped away before hitting the shot, and when he came back to the ball and set his stance, his caddie was standing off to the side. The next day, the PGA Tour announced that it had rescinded the penalty after reviewing McCarthy’s actions, and his score of 67 became a 65.Somewhat lost in the turbulence created by the alignment rule in the men’s game is the fact that the change was seen as directed at the L.P.G.A., where caddies lining up players had been more common. Brittany Lincicome, an eight-time L.P.G.A. tour winner and two-time major champion, said she was glad “it wasn’t one of us” who became the rule’s first victim.After the caddie-alignment episode with McCarthy, and several similar situations involving other players, the U.S.G.A. and the R&A issued a clarification: If players reset their stances after their caddies have surveyed a shot, there is no penalty.“Going in, we knew there were certain things that were going to come up that you’d say, ‘We’re not sure we contemplated this or the intention was never to have this outcome,’” Mike Davis, the chief executive of the U.S.G.A. told The Global Golf Post. He added, “All in all, in terms of how they’re being perceive around the globe, it’s very positive.”That wasn’t the case for Rickie Fowler, who took dead aim at the caddie-alignment rule during the Phoenix Open. “You’re talking about growing the game and making things play faster and whatnot,” he said, “but that’s not growing the game.”Adding to Fowler’s exasperation was a run-in with one of the rule book’s unchanged regulations on the Sunday of the tournament. He took a one-stroke penalty for hitting a shot into the water, then absorbed another one-stroke penalty after his ball rolled back into the hazard several seconds after he walked toward the green to survey his chip.After carding a triple bogey, Fowler, in a show of gallows humor, petitioned the rules official, Slugger White, for a rules modification.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — The Latest on the second round at the Masters (all times local):7:45 p.m.The top of the leaderboard is crowded after two rounds at the Masters.Francesco Molinari, Jason Day, Brooks Koepka, Adam Scott and Louis Oosthuizen are in a five-way tie for the lead at 7-under for the tournament. Oosthuizen shot a 66 on Friday while Molinari and Day both had a 67.Then there is Tiger Woods, who is just one shot off the lead.Koepka and Bryson DeChambeau were the first-round leaders. Koepka wasn't great in the second round, but made birdie on 18 to finish the round at 1-under and stay in a tie for the lead.DeChambeau struggled with a 75.Woods got on a roll on the back nine with birdies on 11, 14 and 15 and is now at 6-under for the tournament.It all adds up to a potentially entertaining weekend.___6:15 p.m.Tiger Woods ran into the long leg of the law during an escape from the trees.As a gentle rain fell, Woods hit a low hook around the trees on the 14th hole and onto the green. He walked toward the fairway to see how the shot landed, when a Georgia Bureau of Investigation officer ran down a small slope to help control the spectators behind Woods. The officer lost his footing on the rain-slickened grass, sliding into Woods' right foot, making him stumble.Woods flexed his ankle, then walked to the 14th green without a limp. His stride looked even better going to the cup after making a 15-foot birdie to reach 5-under, two shots off the lead.___
AUGUSTA, GA — Tommy Fleetwood may already be one of golf's most recognizable players but the mop-topped Englishman is determined to be marked out as winner rather than for a great head of hair.Looking more like a member of Hall of Fame rock band Fleetwood Mac than the PGA Tour, the 28-year-old, with his scruffy beard and long locks spilling out from under a baseball cap, was easily distinguishable from the cookie cutter golfing crowd getting in some practice on Monday at Augusta National ahead of the Masters.Considering Fleetwood's PGA Tour resume does not yet include a title, he would not have drawn much attention had it not been for his "better to burn out than fade away" approach to tournament play which has amplified his rocker image.That "all in" attitude was on full display during the final round of the Players Championship last month when he was trailing Rory McIlroy by two strokes with two holes to play. Fleetwood attacked the pin on the infamous 17th island green and paid the price as his title hopes ended in a watery grave."I don't know why people would expect me to play for the middle of the green if I had a chance of catching Rory," Fleetwood told reporters. "Maybe that's my difference than some other people, I'm always going to play to win."Not that golf will ever define me as a person but I'm never going to look back on my career and say, oh, I finished third at the Players, that was a good week. Or, oh, I finished top five at the Masters, I made a couple of nice pars on the last to finish top five. "That's probably something I'll never say to my kids or grandkids. That's not something to be that proud of."Winning is what it's all about."While Fleetwood is still chasing a maiden PGA Tour title, he does know his way to the winner's circle with four victories on the European Tour.He has regularly featured on the leaderboard at majors, including a runner-up finish at last year's U.S. Open and has shown good form this season with three top 10s.More importantly Fleetwood believes his Masters apprenticeship has reached the point where he can fight for a green jacket.After missing the cut in his first visit to Augusta in 2017, Fleetwood improved to a 17th place finish last year. He showed signs that he was getting comfortable with the layout after carding a six-under 66 in the third round."Year one, it's all so new," said Fleetwood. "Year two, you've been here already, so you're more comfortable with it and it just kind of progresses. "There's a different atmosphere."It's the first major of the year and ... everything that's happened before just doesn't really matter.
AUGUSTA, GA — Tommy Fleetwood may already be one of golf's most recognisable players but the mop-topped Englishman is determined to be marked out as winner rather than for a great head of hair.Looking more like a member of Hall of Fame rock band Fleetwood Mac than the PGA Tour, the 28-year-old, with his scruffy beard and long locks spilling out from under a baseball cap, was easily distinguishable from the cookie cutter golfing crowd getting in some practice on Monday at Augusta National ahead of the Masters.Considering Fleetwood's PGA Tour resume does not yet include a title, he would not have drawn much attention had it not been for his "better to burn out than fade away" approach to tournament play which has amplified his rocker image.That "all in" attitude was on full display during the final round of the Players Championship last month when he was trailing Rory McIlroy by two strokes with two holes to play. Fleetwood attacked the pin on the infamous 17th island green and paid the price as his title hopes ended in a watery grave."I don't know why people would expect me to play for the middle of the green if I had a chance of catching Rory," Fleetwood told reporters. "Maybe that's my difference than some other people, I'm always going to play to win."Not that golf will ever define me as a person but I'm never going to look back on my career and say, oh, I finished third at the Players, that was a good week. Or, oh, I finished top five at the Masters, I made a couple of nice pars on the last to finish top five. "That's probably something I'll never say to my kids or grandkids. That's not something to be that proud of."Winning is what it's all about."While Fleetwood is still chasing a maiden PGA Tour title, he does know his way to the winner's circle with four victories on the European Tour.He has regularly featured on the leaderboard at majors, including a runner-up finish at last year's U.S. Open and has shown good form this season with three top 10s.More importantly Fleetwood believes his Masters apprenticeship has reached the point where he can fight for a green jacket.After missing the cut in his first visit to Augusta in 2017, Fleetwood improved to a 17th place finish last year. He showed signs that he was getting comfortable with the layout after carding a six-under 66 in the third round."Year one, it's all so new," said Fleetwood. "Year two, you've been here already, so you're more comfortable with it and it just kind of progresses. "There's a different atmosphere."It's the first major of the year and ... everything that's happened before just doesn't really matter.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Jordan Spieth visited the Augusta National media interview room almost unnoticed for his assigned rendezvous with the press on Tuesday, like a guest invited to make up the numbers.Only a handful of journalists bothered turning up to hear what the 2015 Masters champion had to say, a far cry from the not-so-long ago days when he packed out the house, seemingly destined to become an all-time great.Though Spieth is only 25, and time is still on his side, his star has waned considerably since he captured the 2017 British Open, his third major title, leaving him only a PGA Championship short of the career grand slam of all four modern majors.He became the second player after Jack Nicklaus to complete three legs of the slam before the age of 24, rarefied company to be sure.Spieth almost pulled off a comeback for the ages in the final round last year, storming from nine strokes behind Patrick Reed to finish third with a closing 64.But Spieth has regressed since then, so much so that a tie for 30th at the Texas Open on Sunday was his best stroke play result all year.But he struck an upbeat note on Tuesday as he assessed his chances this week."My expectations are high," he said. "I feel great about the state of my game right now. I feel like my recent results aren't a tell of where my game is actually at, and I feel I've made a lot of strides in the last couple of days in the tee-to-green game."Really just off the tee, my long game has been the only separation from being able to win golf tournaments over the last month or so." Not everyone is convinced."His golf swing has changed so much, it's almost been completely stripped of all its athleticism," Golf Channel analyst Brandel Chamblee said of Spieth in a conference call last week."His swing has completely changed, and it looks to me like he's in a very tough spot, and who knows if he'll ever find his way back."A lot of people who go down that road can't remember how to get back home."That might sound a little bit negative but there are no more guarantees in golf than in any other walk of life.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Augusta National chairman Fred Ridley on Wednesday threw cold water on the idea of one day hosting a women's Masters alongside the men's major.Augusta National, which did not have a woman member until seven years ago, held its first women's tournament last week on the same course that will play host to the men's major.Ridley, however, said the club has no plans to take another step and develop a women's Masters."To date, all of our grow-the-game initiatives have been focused on amateur golf and amateur golfers," said Ridley during the Augusta National chairman's annual address on Wednesday. "In this particular case, we elected to conduct a women's amateur tournament for really that same reason, but we really wanted this to continue in a grow-the-game sort of mode."As to what we might do next, I'm still thinking about last Saturday, so I'll start thinking about that next week."For many the next logical step is for Augusta to organize a women's Masters. The idea, however, does not seem to excite the Augusta membership.While Augusta National is best known as the home of the Masters, Ridley believes the club is better serving the amateur roots of co-founders Clifford Roberts and Bobby Jones and developing the sport by giving its name to a women's amateur competition."I think part of that kind of goes back to history and that is that Augusta National was founded, co-founded by the greatest amateur of all time," said Ridley. After opening its doors to women members in 2012, Augusta National has since made efforts to promote and develop women's golf, but some in the game remain frustrated by what they see as the painfully slow pace of change.Asked if the club's failure to confront its restrictive policies had stunted the growth of the women's game, Ridley said they could have done better. "No matter what the issue is, you know, we can always look back and say we could do better," said Ridley. "No question. "But what my focus is, is on the future and where we are now and where we want to go. We learn from the past. "But what I think is most productive is to look at where we are today, realize that throughout the history of this club, we have promoted the game and we have now identified a really important segment, the fastest growing segment of the game - that we can help make a difference." (Editing by Toby Davis)
AUGUSTA, Ga. — It has been 11 years since Tiger Woods last won a major and 14 since he claimed a Green Jacket yet like Augusta National itself some things never seem to change as the 43 year-old again took his place in the Masters spotlight on Tuesday."If Tiger wins my goodness what's that story going to be, it might make the morning papers -- for the next three months," six-time major winner Nick Faldo replied when asked what might be the Masters' biggest storylines when play begins.Since Woods made his Masters debut in 1995 until a rainy practice round on Tuesday, the American has been the main attraction at the year's first major.Even when Woods was not at Augusta National, missing the 2014, 2016 and 2017 tournaments due to injury, he was never out of the Masters conversation.Without a major win since notching number 14 at the 2008 U.S. Open, Woods's Masters drought stretches back even further to 2005 before either of his children, 11 year-old Sam and 10 year-old Charlie, were born.For golf fans it is a dry spell that is hard to comprehend and for Woods one he admits he never saw coming. "I would say that I wouldn't have foreseen that, for sure," said Woods. "After I won my 14th, I felt like I still had plenty more major championships that I could win, but unfortunately I just didn't do it."Hopefully this year, I put myself there again, and hopefully I'll get it done."PROMISING SIGNSAs Thursday's first round approaches Tiger-mania is picking up steam.After successful back fusion surgery and a long tedious recovery Woods returned to the winner's circle last year, picking up his 80th career title with a stunning victory at the Tour Championship.Perhaps an even more promising sign of a major breakthrough came at last year's British Open and PGA Championship where he contended in both events."It proved to me that I could win again," Woods said of his Tour Championship victory. "You know, I was close a couple of times. "I just need to clean up my rounds and maybe need to get a break here or there."Nowhere does the Tiger mystique hang over an event more than at the Masters.
(Reuters) - Dutchman Daan Huizing made nine birdies to take the lead in the first round of the Jordan Mixed Open, the first professional tournament with men and women competing against each other for the same prize, on Thursday. Huizing shot an eight-under 64 in Aqaba to lead England's Meghan MacLaren, a Ladies European Tour winner, and her compatriot Jack Senior by one stroke.Forty professionals and one amateur player each from the Challenge Tour, the over-50s Tour and the Ladies European Tour are in the field, competing for a prize fund of around $400,000."Today was pretty complete and I was shaping the ball nicely, both ways, which is something I've worked on very hard over the winter," Huizing told reporters."I made some good putts and mentally I was in good shape as well, sticking to my process, so there are a lot of good signs and I'm looking forward to tomorrow."MacLaren, who sparked debate in January over the disparity in pay between men's and women's events, was happy to finish among the leaders after setting the early clubhouse target."If I'm going to write about it and talk about it all the time, then I better back it up with my golf," MacLaren, the only woman to finish in the top 10, said. "If I'm up there it means the girls can take advantage."I'm delighted to do it at this tournament because hopefully it will send a message. But any time you shoot seven under in any tournament you're not going to be too far off the lead."The course was designed by Australian Greg Norman who was world number one for over 300 weeks in the 1980s and 1990s."To construct a format in which women and men compete together over the same course is an impressive feat," Norman said in a statement."There is no doubt that events that showcase golfing talent regardless of gender, such as the Jordan Mixed Open... are the future of the game."The Challenge Tour players are playing from tees making up a 7,152-yard course, the seniors cover 6,601 yards and the women 6,139 yards."Our first and primary priority was to engineer a format that could showcase golfing talent regardless of gender," director of operations Chris White said."This not only means taking into consideration carry yardages, both off the tee and throughout the player's whole bag, but also the positioning of bunkers and hazards."Although the Jordan tournament is the first, official mixed gender tournament, men and women have competed against each other previously, most notably at the Wendy's 3-Tour Challenge, a single-day event which ran from 1992-2013.
AUGUSTA Ga. (Reuters) - Rory McIlroy's desire to complete his collection of golf's four majors with a win at this week's Masters has led the Northern Irishman to try a fresh approach, one that focuses on meditation and juggling.McIlroy enters the year's first major as the hottest player on the planet and he credits his solid start to 2019 with a new attitude that is all about perspective, persistence and poise, or what he refers to as the three P's.The new formula for McIlroy, who will play the opening two rounds this week with American Rickie Fowler and Australia's Cameron Smith, centres around meditation, juggling and mind training."Look, I'm not going to go and live with the monks for a couple months in Nepal, but just to be able to get your mind in the right place and be able to focus and to centre yourself," McIlroy told a news conference at Augusta National on Tuesday."It's 10 minutes a day. It's not as if I'm being consumed by it. But definitely something that has helped from time to time. Especially in situations where you need your mind to be right."McIlroy has five consecutive top-10 finishes at the Masters yet his defining moment at Augusta National remains his final-round collapse in 2011 when he failed to close out the win despite entering the day with a four-shot lead.But McIlroy, who has since gone on to win four times at golf's three other majors, has visions of becoming just the sixth person to complete the career grand slam and hopes his new approach will prove fruitful.The 29-year-old Northern Irishman has a top-six finish in each of the six stroke play events he has played this year, including a triumph at the Players Championship where he meditated for 20 minutes ahead of the final round.Early indications, therefore, are that McIlroy may be on the right path with his meditation and juggling."They mightn't be the right things for other people, but I think I've found a formula that works for me, and I'm ‑‑ you know, I'm going to persist with it and I'm going to stick to it," said McIlroy."It's helped me play some of the best golf of my career so far this year, and you know, hopefully that will continue."When it comes to juggling, McIlroy described himself as a "rookie" who can only handle three balls at once."You know, maybe what resonates with me is isn't going to resonate with someone else, but I found what I feel is the best path forward for me and I've committed to it," McIlroy said.McIlroy, who had another close call last year when he began the final round three shots behind eventual winner Patrick Reed, said the pressure he puts on himself at Augusta National compared to his previous appearances has changed."I would dearly love to win this tournament one day. If it doesn't happen this week, that's totally fine, I'll come back next year and have another crack at it," said McIlroy.
AUGUSTA Ga. (Reuters) - Rory McIlroy's desire to complete his collection of golf's four majors with a win at this week's Masters has led the Northern Irishman to try a fresh approach, one that focuses on meditation and juggling.McIlroy enters the year's first major as the hottest player on the planet and he credits his solid start to 2019 with a new attitude that is all about perspective, persistence and poise, or what he refers to as the three P's.The new formula for McIlroy, who will play the opening two rounds this week with American Rickie Fowler and Australia's Cameron Smith, centres around meditation, juggling and mind training."Look, I'm not going to go and live with the monks for a couple months in Nepal, but just to be able to get your mind in the right place and be able to focus and to centre yourself," McIlroy told a news conference at Augusta National on Tuesday."It's 10 minutes a day. It's not as if I'm being consumed by it. But definitely something that has helped from time to time. Especially in situations where you need your mind to be right."McIlroy has five consecutive top-10 finishes at the Masters yet his defining moment at Augusta National remains his final-round collapse in 2011 when he failed to close out the win despite entering the day with a four-shot lead.But McIlroy, who has since gone on to win four times at golf's three other majors, has visions of becoming just the sixth person to complete the career grand slam and hopes his new approach will prove fruitful.The 29-year-old Northern Irishman has a top-six finish in each of the six stroke play events he has played this year, including a triumph at the Players Championship where he meditated for 20 minutes ahead of the final round.Early indications, therefore, are that McIlroy may be on the right path with his meditation and juggling."They mightn't be the right things for other people, but I think I've found a formula that works for me, and I'm ‑‑ you know, I'm going to persist with it and I'm going to stick to it," said McIlroy."It's helped me play some of the best golf of my career so far this year, and you know, hopefully that will continue."When it comes to juggling, McIlroy described himself as a "rookie" who can only handle three balls at once."You know, maybe what resonates with me is isn't going to resonate with someone else, but I found what I feel is the best path forward for me and I've committed to it," McIlroy said.McIlroy, who had another close call last year when he began the final round three shots behind eventual winner Patrick Reed, said the pressure he puts on himself at Augusta National compared to his previous appearances has changed."I would dearly love to win this tournament one day. If it doesn't happen this week, that's totally fine, I'll come back next year and have another crack at it," said McIlroy.
AUGUSTA Ga. (Reuters) - Rickie Fowler returned to Augusta National on Monday with the heartbreak of last year's runner-up Masters finish firmly behind him and brimming with confidence that a breakthrough major win is closer than ever.Fowler, a five-times winner on the PGA Tour, has three runner-up finishes to show from 36 major appearances and as a result finds his name on the list of the best players who have never won one of golf's four blue riband events.But such talk does not discourage the 30-year-old American, who comes into the year's first major in solid form and among the favorites to claim a Green Jacket."Compared to four, five, whatever years ago, yeah, I'm more ready than I've ever been," Fowler told reporters. "Not saying that I can sit up here and tell you I'm definitely going to go win, but I like my chances."I love this place. I know I can play well around here. For me, every time I get to play it, it's fun ... I get to use my imagination around here." Last year Fowler started the final round at Augusta National five shots behind overnight leader Patrick Reed but a sparkling back nine, which included a birdie at the last, saw him card a five-under-par 67.The strong finish was not enough as Reed managed to hang on for a one-stroke victory but Fowler, after getting over the pain of another near miss, was able to take plenty of positives from his performance."The way I executed on the back nine Sunday last year was definitely something I pull from, and it was a lot of fun to be in the mix, birdieing 18, to make Patrick earn it a bit," said Fowler."But I was just a little bit too far back, and Patrick put together a strong week of golf."So it was fun. It was great to be in the mix, and like I said, have a chance. But time to do one better."Fowler's performance at last year's Masters also marked the first time in eight starts at Augusta National that he recorded four par or better rounds.He has made a strong start to 2019, including a win at the Phoenix Open in February, and is fresh off a share of 17th place at the Valero Texas Open where Fowler said he ticked a lot of boxes when it came to having his golf game where he wanted it. "Some guys don't like to play (the week) before a major. Sometimes they like to get work in at home with their coach or work on the game and spend time on the driving range," said Fowler."For me, playing and just seeing where the state of my game's at and what I may need to work at makes Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday a lot more efficient. I know exactly what I want to do." (Editing by Ken Ferris)
(Reuters) - Shane Lowry held on to his slender lead at the RBC Heritage on Friday though the Irishman still has two holes left to complete his second round after play was suspended for the day at the weather-hit South Carolina tournament.Lowry was three-under par for the round when darkness halted play, leaving him on nine-under for the tournament, a stroke ahead of Trey Mullinax (68), who is already in the clubhouse on eight-under 134 at Harbour Town Golf Links.Lowry, who opened with a 65, will return at 7:45 a.m. local time (1145 GMT) on Saturday to play the remaining two holes before beginning his third round.Dustin Johnson and Argentine Emiliano Grillo shot matching 67s to finish on seven-under 135 before rain and high winds forced a suspension for nearly four hours.Lowry collected birdies on his first two holes before the storms hit. He returned for two more birdies and a bogey.Grillo had the highlight of the round after holing out from 254 yards for a two at the par-five fifth hole. It was the first albatross at the Hilton Head, South Carolina course since 2007 and the fourth of the year on the PGA Tour."It was a perfect shot," Grillo said. "Perfect distance. Perfect everything. Perfect wind. It was one of those that was good, but you never expect it to go in."The Argentine also had three birdies after starting the round with two bogeys.Johnson claimed five birdies against a single bogey."It was difficult all day," the world number one said. "The wind blew consistently all day. Made it tough. But I hit a lot of really solid golf shots. "At times it was really difficult to judge the wind but I felt like I played really solid all day, gave myself a lot of opportunities."Johnson liked his weekend chances but hoped he could roll in a few more putts."The greens are tricky," he said. "For me, I don't know, I've always struggled reading them. But I hit some really nice putts and I played really solid."Xander Schauffele, who had tied for second at the Masters, shot a 70 to sit eight strokes off the lead.Italy's Francesco Molinari, who took a two-shot lead into the final round at Augusta National before being overtaken by Tiger Woods, was unlikely to make the projected cut of even par.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — The first time Francesco Molinari arrived at The Masters, he was in white overalls. This year, the British Open champion is hoping to walk away in a green jacket.A caddie for his brother Edoardo in 2006, Molinari "carried the clubs and prayed that (Edoardo) was going to hit good shots," the Italian told reporters on Tuesday."We were very inexperienced at this level and just trying to make the most of those two days."This year, the 36-year-old will hit the links as the Open Championship's victor and a legitimate threat to take The Masters' top prize."I've had a lot of success in the last few months, and I think that the important thing is that I don't have to let my guard down," Molinari said. "I still have to go through all the work and the process that got me to this point, and hopefully will get me even further forward in my career."The world number seven has enjoyed a hot streak since becoming the first Italian professional golfer to win a major at the British Open in July, clinching the Ryder cup for Europe in September and winning the race to Dubai in November.Most recently, the European Tour Golfer of the Year put on a putting master class to win March's Arnold Palmer Invitational."It's taken awhile, but obviously now success is coming quite often, and that's a nice feeling," Molinari said. "So I'll try to keep working to keep the success coming."To do so this week he'll need to contend with Augusta National's famously challenging course, where his career best saw him tie for 19th in 2012. Alongside his competitors, he'll also grapple with a new fifth hole on the course."The second shot, obviously is longer, considerably longer," said Molinari, who practiced on the front nine on Monday. "I think that's going to be around a three‑club difference." (Reporting By Amy Tennery; Editing by Christian Radnedge)
SPRAGUE, Conn. — A bobcat that attacked a golfer in Connecticut was beaten off by golf clubs before environmental police tracked it down and killed it, authorities said.The bobcat attacked the golfer at about 8:30 a.m. Thursday on the Mohegan Sun Golf Course in the Baltic section of Sprague, according to a statement from the state Department of Energy and Environmental Protection.General manager Philip Krick Jr. told The Day of New London a foursome was near a fairway bunker on the seventh hole when the cat jumped on one man's back. Krick and police said the man in his 60s and another golfer in his group used their clubs to beat the cat away.Environmental police tracked the cat to a culvert and shot it. The bobcat is thought to be the same animal that attacked a horse stabled nearby earlier in the morning. The horse received lacerations to the neck and eye and was treated by a veterinarian.The bobcat is being tested for rabies.The golfer was taken to a Norwich hospital to be treated for scratches. His name was not made public.Bobcats are common in Connecticut, but they tend to be secretive animals and attacks on humans are rare, state officials said. The last report of a bobcat attack in the state was in Bozrah in August 2014. That animal turned out to be rabid.
SPRAGUE, Conn. — A bobcat that attacked a golfer in Connecticut shortly after scratching a horse has tested positive for rabies.The bobcat was shot and killed by state environmental police shortly after it attacked a man Thursday on the Mohegan Sun Golf Course in Sprague, Connecticut.The state Department of Energy and Environmental Protection said in a statement the wildcat was taken for testing at the UConn Medical Lab, which confirmed it has rabies.The golfer and the horse's owner have been notified.The golfer, a man in his 60s whose name was not made public, was treated at a hospital for scratches.Bobcats are common in Connecticut, but attacks on humans are unusual. The last report of a bobcat attack on a human in the state was in Bozrah in August 2014.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Like many golf fans, one of Brooks Koepka's most vivid Masters moments involves three-times champion Phil Mickelson.Pulling it up from deep inside his childhood memory banks, Koepka recalled in detail on Tuesday his meeting with Mickelson near the Augusta National parking lot two decades ago when a starry eyed kid with dreams of being a Masters winner one day cornered 'Lefty' for an autograph."He turned me down, (I am) probably about the only kid Phil's ever turned down," recalled Koepka with a chuckle. "He told me years later, I shouldn't have been in the parking lot so fair enough. "He doesn't remember. I mean, I can't believe he doesn't remember the first time he ever said no to a kid, signing an autograph."I told him, I think in 2014, I think we were playing a practice round at the British Open. I had to tell him. I was like, 'Listen, man, you stiffed me and I really didn't like you for a long time'."We can laugh about it now."Fast forward 20 years and Koepka is a three-times major winner signing autographs at Augusta National -- the only hint of a scar left from the Mickelson brush-off is his difficulty in saying 'no' to a little kid.Koepka said he has since got Mickelson's autograph and this week will be focused on getting his own name on the Masters trophy and slipping into a Green Jacket.In each of his three previous Masters, the 28-year-old American has made progress but is still without a top-10, with his best finish a tie for 11th in 2017.He watched last year's tournament from his couch recovering from a wrist injury. He returns to Augusta National as a far different player, having since won three majors, back-to-back U.S. Opens in 2017 and 2018 along with the 2018 PGA Championship."I've got three trophies that I haven't had any time I've teed it up (here)," said Koepka. "I've never been a major champion when I played here."Completely different player probably. (I) Understand how to handle pressure a lot better, understand this golf course a lot better. Even sitting out a year, there are certain things you can pick up on when you're watching."And (I have) really kind of matured on and off the golf course. I think it is a big deal.""It's nice to be back here. It's always a special place to be playing."
NEW YORK — In a story April 15, The Associated Press reported that Adidas sold off its golf business. The story should have clarified that the business Adidas sold off was a golf club maker, and that Adidas still offers golf apparel, footwear and accessories.
RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. — Albane Valenzuela could have been teeing it up Wednesday in the inaugural Augusta National Women’s Amateur, where the contestants who survive the cut will play the final 18 holes on the fabled course where men will compete at the Masters next week.Valenzuela, a junior at Stanford and the fifth-ranked women’s amateur in the world, seriously entertained the invitation from the board of governors of the Augusta National Golf Club until she received what she considered a better offer for this week: her third start in the ANA Inspiration, the women’s first major of the year.“Getting to tee off and play the same course as the world No. 1,” she said Tuesday, referring to South Korea’s Sung Hyun Park, “I think that’s the best experience you can get.”Augusta National officials have trumpeted their amateur invitational as a grand stage for women’s golf. That overlooks the major originally known as the Dinah Shore, which has captivated young golfers since 1972. The tournament has cultivated indelible traditions like the winner’s leap into Poppie’s Pond and consistently provided significant exposure for top amateurs like Valenzuela, who used her 2016 debut here as a springboard to the Rio Olympics.Augusta National didn’t admit its first female members until 2012. And while it has since opened its course to boys and girls through the Drive, Chip and Putt contest and to amateur women, these inclusive gestures have ignored — and however unintentionally, undermined — the L.P.G.A., one of the longest-running women’s professional sports organizations.The Drive, Chip and Putt contest, held the Sunday before the Masters, has siphoned television and other media coverage from the final round of the ANA Inspiration. And with the advent of the Augusta National Women’s Amateur, the spotlight on the best women’s players in the world has become more diffuse.“I think it comes from a very positive place in Augusta — they want to do the right thing,” Valenzuela said. “It’s probably not my place to say, but it would have been great if both could have worked together to make them happen in different weeks, because you don’t want to get the spotlight off the L.P.G.A.”The ANA Inspiration matters because the magnetic moments that attracted Valenzuela to the sport as a child didn’t involve Augusta National, which for most of its history has been so far out of the women’s orbit that it might as well have been on Mars.“Ever since I’ve been a little girl I’ve seen all the girls jump in the pond,” Valenzuela said, adding, “This is the women’s Masters.”On Wednesday, Jennifer Kupcho, a Wake Forest senior and the top-ranked women’s amateur, struck the opening drive of the new event at the Champions Retreat resort in Evans, Ga., the site of the first two rounds. Only the final round will be played at Augusta National.Across the country Wednesday, Valenzuela grooved her swing on the Mission Hills practice range. Stacy Lewis, the 2011 ANA Inspiration champion, said she planned to extend a warm welcome to Valenzuela and the four other amateurs in the field: Patty Tavatanakit, Frida Kinhult, Rachel Heck and Xin Kou, who is also known as Cindy.“I’m really proud of them,” said Lewis, the former women’s world No. 1 who recently returned to competition after the birth in October of her first child, a daughter. “If you want to play professional golf, you need to play in majors, and you need to see where your game stacks up and have that experience of playing in front of those big crowds.”Valenzuela has advanced to the weekend in each of her previous starts in this event. If she misses the cut this week, she will not be idle over the weekend. Her consolation prize will be joining her Stanford teammates on Sunday at the Silverado Showdown, a collegiate women’s event in Napa.Stanford is ranked fourth in the Women’s Golf Coaches Association poll and is jockeying with other top teams for seeding positions at next month’s N.C.A.A. championship. Another Stanford star, Andrea Lee, chose to play in Georgia this week.Anne Walker, Valenzuela’s coach at Stanford, said in a telephone interview that she welcomed Augusta National’s move into the women’s game, describing it as “another great opportunity that’s opened up.”
Alice Dye, who teamed with her husband, Pete, to pioneer modern golf-course architecture and worked to promote the women’s game for more than half a century, died on Friday in Gulf Stream, Fla. She was 91.Her death was announced by Dye Designs, the family’s company.The Dyes designed dozens of venues, in the United States and abroad, many of them regularly ranked among the best in the world and frequently chosen to host professional tournaments.That roster includes the stadium course at TPC Sawgrass, in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.; PGA West, near Palm Springs, Calif.; Whistling Straits, on Lake Michigan in Sheboygan, Wis.; the Ocean Course, on Kiawah Island in South Carolina; Harbour Town Golf Links, in Hilton Head, S.C.; and Crooked Stick, in Alice’s hometown, Indianapolis.Their courses were generally known as Pete Dye designs, but Alice provided significant input, and her husband usually took her advice.Their signature hole was the 17th at TPC Sawgrass, the home of the Players Championship. When Pete was unsure how to fill in sandy terrain he had hollowed out around the green for transfer to other spots on the course, Alice provided the solution.“Originally, the water was just supposed to come into play on the right side, but we just kept digging,” the Golf Channel quoted Mr. Dye as saying. “And then one day Alice came out and said, ‘Why don’t you just go ahead and make it an island?’ So we did.”That green, connected to the rest of the course by a slender land bridge, has tormented even the world’s greatest golfers and become one of the most recognized images in the sport.When they were building the Ocean Course on Kiawah Island in 1990, Ms. Dye persuaded her husband to raise the fairways to harmonize them with the environment.“Pete, I can’t see the ocean on the back nine,” she said, as related by The New York Times. “I don’t just want to hear it; I want to see it.”Mr. Dye raised the fairways by six feet so that the ocean came into view. But that created an added challenge by exposing the course to unpredictable, sometimes strong winds.Both husband and wife were avid golfers, but Ms. Dye was the more accomplished of the two; she won some 50 amateur titles as well as two United States Golf Association senior championships and two Canadian senior championships. She played on the United States’ victorious Curtis Cup team in 1970.In 1983, Ms. Dye was the first woman admitted to the American Society of Golf Course Architects. In 1997, she became the first woman to serve as the society’s president. She received the PGA of America’s First Lady of Golf Award in 2004.Ms. Dye championed forward tees that make formidable courses more playable for most women as well as for male players outside the pro ranks.“I worked very hard on trying to get the two-tee system for women,” she told the PGA of America. “I was successful in getting the yardage down between 5,000 and 5,200 yards.”
LONDON — President Trump has implied that a golf course owned by the Trump Organization in Scotland helps cement the United States’ relationship with Britain, just a few days after a Scottish court ruled that the company had to pay expenses in a failed lawsuit.“Very proud of perhaps the greatest golf course anywhere in the world,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Saturday, adding, “Also, furthers U.K. relationship!”The Trump International golf course near Aberdeen, in northeastern Scotland, was ordered on Wednesday to cover the Scottish government’s legal costs after the company was unsuccessful in its attempts to halt a North Sea wind power development.Mr. Trump’s company had argued that the wind turbines would mar the view from the golf course. The case went to the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom in December 2015, where the company lost, setting up the ruling about who should pay costs.The exact sum of the reimbursement that the Trump Organization now has to pay has not been disclosed. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The president’s tweet prompted bafflement and concern among some legal and ethics experts.Thomas Lundmark, a professor of law at the University of Hull, in northern England, said in a telephone interview on Monday that the tweet “made me curious.”“I don’t know what he’s talking about,” Mr. Lundmark added. “Does it further a relationship for him? For the United States? For us? How?”Though the ruling in Scotland was against Mr. Trump’s company, Mr. Lundmark suggested that there were constitutional and ethical concerns.The American Constitution prohibits the president from accepting payments from foreign and domestic governments. Mr. Trump owns golf courses, hotels and other properties that are frequented by foreign and domestic government officials.Some have claimed that Mr. Trump’s promotion of his properties while president amount to a violation of the emoluments clauses in the Constitution.“He’s turned companies over to other people to manage, but he is still a beneficiary,” Mr. Lundmark said.John Linarelli, an American professor of commercial law at Durham University in northeast England, said that there was “plausible concern” that the constitutional rules were being violated.It was also, he added, “a question of ethics.”“You want him to have our interests in mind when he’s managing foreign policy — not his own,” Mr. Linarelli added.
AUGUSTA Ga. (Reuters) - Rory McIlroy will begin his latest quest to complete the career grand slam of golf's four majors when he tees off alongside American Rickie Fowler and Australia's Cameron Smith at the Masters starting on Thursday at Augusta National.It will be McIlroy's fifth attempt at the Masters to complete his collection of major titles and is perhaps his best chance yet as the Northern Irishman enters the week as the hottest player on the planet.McIlroy's grouping, which will be the 15th of 29 to take the course, will start their round at 11:15 a.m. ET (1515 GMT) and follow the threesome of four-times champion Tiger Woods, China's Li Haotong and Spaniard Jon Rahm around the course.Looking to join Gene Sarazen, Ben Hogan, Gary Player, Jack Nicklaus and Woods as winners of the career grand slam, McIlroy enters the year's first major in top form.With a top-six finish in each of the six stroke play events he has played this year, including a triumph at The Players Championship three weeks ago, McIlroy is a popular pick to make amends for his final-round letdown last year.McIlroy, whose grouping will be the last out on Friday at 2 p.m. ET behind the Woods threesome, started three shots back of eventual champion Patrick Reed entering the final round in 2018 but closed with two-over 74 to finish in a share of fifth place.Three-times champion Phil Mickelson will play the opening two rounds alongside 2013 U.S. Open champion Justin Rose and 2017 PGA Championship winner Justin Thomas in the penultimate grouping on Thursday.The final trio on Thursday will bring together Jordan Spieth, Paul Casey and Brooks Koepka.World number two Dustin Johnson will play the opening two rounds with Bryson DeChambeau and Australian Jason Day while reigning champion Patrick Reed will play alongside fellow American Webb Simpson and Norwegian amateur Viktor Hovland. (Reporting by Frank Pingue)
AUGUSTA Ga. (Reuters) - Bryson DeChambeau has earned the "mad scientist" nickname for his calculated approach to golf and may need to spend some extra time in his quirky laboratory to find a winning formula at this week's Masters.DeChambeau, a physics major who previously used a since-banned compass to help read greens, has five wins on the PGA Tour but taming Augusta National will prove the toughest test yet for the American world number six.The year's first major does not provide players with green-reading books, and that could put DeChambeau well out of his comfort zone given the highly-contoured greens at Augusta National that can frustrate the game's best putters."I have to work a little harder to get some insight into some things than other places, but that's fine," DeChambeau told reporters on Monday."I mean, that's a part of the process, and I think the person who digs it out of the dirt the most should have a little bit of an advantage and I think that's where it's actually a positive thing."DeChambeau, who finished as the low amateur at the Masters in 2016 before joining the PGA Tour the following year, already has a win this season but knows he faces a difficult challenge going into Thursday's opening round.Unlike many of his competitors, DeChambeau will not be able to rely on the detailed notes they have modified over the years after logging countless practice and tournament rounds at Augusta National.DeChambeau made no secrets when asked about what impact the lack of green-reading books could have on him this week."Now I practiced trying to understand what one percent is, what two percent is, based on my eyes," said DeChambeau. "Is it as precise as the greens books? Absolutely not. We still have to feel and sense with our eyes what it's going to do."That's really all I can do and I have to practice a lot more hitting breaking putts, because I can't just bring out my compass and go, oh, it's 3 percent and here it is. I have to look at and walk around and go, okay, I'm acclimated to 3 percent." (Reporting by Frank Pingue, editing by Pritha Sarkar)
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Phil Mickelson flashed the faraway look of a man approaching a half-century of life, clearly pondering where the time went."It goes by fast," he reminisced, glancing toward the rolling hills and towering pines beyond the Augusta National clubhouse.Then, just like that, Lefty snapped out of it.He's got his sights on a fourth green jacket."I think I've got another major in me," Mickelson said confidently. "At least one, maybe two. I would love to get one right here."The 100th round of his Masters career wasn't all that memorable, a middling 1-over 73 Friday in which he was forced to scramble mightily to overcome a wayward driver.But it was enough to keep him in the thick of things after an opening-round 67, to give him a shot at becoming the oldest player to win one of golf's major championships.For a sport that can be a bit lethargic, needlessly complicated and way too stuffy, this remains one of its overwhelming charms.On any given day, the old guys can still go swing-for-swing with all those buffed-up youngsters, giving us all a bit of hope as we approach middle age and beyond, clear evidence that our golden years don't have to be confined to a rocking chair.That's especially the case at Augusta National, which embraces the geezers like a warm, comfy blanket."Every time I come here, I just feel like a kid again," Mickelson said. "It's so much fun."He's already got one major title since entering his 40s, capturing the 2013 British Open at age 43. Now, with his 49th birthday a little over two months away, there's little doubt that he's still got the game to win another."I expected to be a little bit better, to be honest," said Mickelson, whose 4-under 140 left him three shots off the lead. "But there's nothing better than having a chance going into the weekend at the Masters, and that's what I want to focus on. I know that I'm playing well enough."As with all sports, golf will always be a young man's game.A player is far more likely to win a major title in his 20s than his 40s.
AUGUSTA Ga. (Reuters) - Brooks Koepka was all brawn in the first round of the Masters but on Friday he was all brains as he showcased his mental toughness on a day when it looked like he might drop out of contention.A day following a flawless trip around Augusta National, overnight leader Koepka was forced to battle through ups-and-downs en route to a one-under-par 71 that left him in a five-way share of a one-shot lead after the second round."I'm proud of myself the way I hung in there," said Koepka, who is on seven-under-par for the tournament. "To be where I'm at, as badly as I putted and hit the ball today, I'm pleased with it."Three-time major champion Koepka birdied the first hole but looked like he might unravel after running into trouble at the par-five second where he made a double-bogey after his drive found the trees to the left and second shot went in a hazard.Koepka responded immediately with a birdie but then had a pair of bogeys over the next three holes, at which point it appeared the new leaders would begin to pull away on an Augusta National layout that was softened due to rain.But Koepka righted the ship with a birdie at the par-five eighth and then played solid golf on the back nine with birdies at 15 and 18, the latter which will surely send him into the night feeling better."I know some people don't think I'm mentally tough, or tough in general, but I think I am," said Koepka. "I've proven that with three (major) trophies."I feel like no matter how things are going, whether they are going really well or really poorly out there, I can grind it out, and especially during a major."Koepka, who has won two of the last three majors and missed last year's Masters due to a wrist injury, is not about to panic or overanalyse what happened during the second round."I've been playing this game for 22, 23 years. Nothing is going to change overnight," said Koepka. "I know how to play the game. I just know how to hit the ball. I know I'm going to go out there and go do what I normally do."I'm not trying to, you know ‑‑ just because it's a major on a Saturday, I'm not going to go out and do anything different. Just go tee it up, look where I want to hit it and fire at it." (Editing by Peter Rutherford)
AUGUSTA, Ga. — The Mexican flag has been waving proudly at Augusta National with amateur Alvaro Ortiz taking the baton from Maria Fassi and carrying it into this week's Masters with his eyes on a Green Jacket.After a four-decade absence, Augusta National is getting a fresh taste of Latin flair served up by a new generation of Mexican golfers primed to battle for titles.Fassi provided Ortiz with a tough act to follow by finishing runner-up to Jennifer Kupcho in the inaugural Augusta National Women's Amateur after a stirring back-nine battle with the American on Saturday.Now Ortiz steps into the spotlight as he becomes the first player from his country since Victor Regalado in 1979 to play at the Masters and only the second Mexican amateur following Juan Antonio Estrada who featured at Augusta from 1962-64.The determined Ortiz finished runner-up in the two previous Latin America Amateur Championship tournaments before this year claiming the title and his Masters invite at the third attempt."It was a huge deal for my family and me for sure and the whole country," said Ortiz, who will turn professional immediately after the Masters. "When I came back to Mexico after winning, it was all cheers and people were so happy."People were so proud that I was going to be able to put a Mexican flag up there."Ortiz said he had received plenty of advice ahead of Thursday's opening round with most people telling him to relax and enjoy the experience.But the 23-year-old, showing no fear and more than a little cockiness, said he would be trying to win a Green Jacket like everyone else, although admitting if given a chance to sign for a top 10 right now he would take it."In my mind, I'm out here to compete and I want the Green Jacket," he said. "I think every player is thinking like that."Of course, winning the low amateur would be nice," he said referring to the Silver Cup awarded to the lowest amateur to make the cut."Making the cut would be a really good finish too but if you give me a top 10 right now, I'll sign it for sure."While a top 10 finish would guarantee a Masters invite next year, Ortiz is soaking up every moment of his experience now.He will spend Monday night in the Crow's Nest above the Augusta National clubhouse, where amateurs have traditionally slept, and promised to bite into the local delicacy -- a pimento cheese sandwich -- at some point. "Yeah, everybody was talking about that," Ortiz said with a smile. "Actually, I received more arguments about the... chicken barbecue sandwich, which I think is pretty good. I already tried that one, but I'll have to try the pimento cheese."
AUGUSTA, Ga. — The Mexican flag has been waving proudly at Augusta National with amateur Alvaro Ortiz taking the baton from Maria Fassi and carrying it into this week's Masters with his eyes on a Green Jacket.After a four-decade absence, Augusta National is getting a fresh taste of Latin flair served up by a new generation of Mexican golfers primed to battle for titles.Fassi provided Ortiz with a tough act to follow by finishing runner-up to Jennifer Kupcho in the inaugural Augusta National Women's Amateur after a stirring back-nine battle with the American on Saturday.Now Ortiz steps into the spotlight as he becomes the first player from his country since Victor Regalado in 1979 to play at the Masters and only the second Mexican amateur following Juan Antonio Estrada who featured at Augusta from 1962-64.The determined Ortiz finished runner-up in the two previous Latin America Amateur Championship tournaments before this year claiming the title and his Masters invite at the third attempt."It was a huge deal for my family and me for sure and the whole country," said Ortiz, who will turn professional immediately after the Masters. "When I came back to Mexico after winning, it was all cheers and people were so happy."People were so proud that I was going to be able to put a Mexican flag up there."Ortiz said he had received plenty of advice ahead of Thursday's opening round with most people telling him to relax and enjoy the experience.But the 23-year-old, showing no fear and more than a little cockiness, said he would be trying to win a Green Jacket like everyone else, although admitting if given a chance to sign for a top 10 right now he would take it."In my mind, I'm out here to compete and I want the Green Jacket," he said. "I think every player is thinking like that."Of course, winning the low amateur would be nice," he said referring to the Silver Cup awarded to the lowest amateur to make the cut."Making the cut would be a really good finish too but if you give me a top 10 right now, I'll sign it for sure."While a top 10 finish would guarantee a Masters invite next year, Ortiz is soaking up every moment of his experience now.He will spend Monday night in the Crow's Nest above the Augusta National clubhouse, where amateurs have traditionally slept, and promised to bite into the local delicacy -- a pimento cheese sandwich -- at some point. "Yeah, everybody was talking about that," Ortiz said with a smile. "Actually, I received more arguments about the... chicken barbecue sandwich, which I think is pretty good. I already tried that one, but I'll have to try the pimento cheese."
AUGUSTA, Georgia — When Justin Rose launches his 14th bid for Masters glory this week he will be armed with expert knowledge of Augusta National's notoriously tricky greens and something perhaps even more valuable -- a good friend. After three months apart, the newly re-minted world number one told reporters on Monday that he was pleased to be reunited with long-time caddie Mark 'Fooch' Fulcher, who had to take time off following heart surgery in January."I feel like we've learned together so much here, I wouldn't expect a nugget of information I don't know to come out during practice," Rose said after a practice round.He added that Fulcher's presence would be especially valuable in the later rounds of the tournament, when emotions run high."It's when the going gets tough," Rose said. "We have so many positive experiences out there under pressure that we can draw on together."The 2013 U.S. Open champion has clinched a top-10 finish on five separate occasions at The Masters. But perhaps no single outing at Augusta National was more formative to Rose than his devastating playoff loss to Spaniard Sergio Garcia in 2017."I felt like that was the first major I've been close to and not won, really, like a heartbreaker," Rose said. "I think I took comfort in the fact that you can't get through a career without something like that happening."It was far from the only setback. Injuries to his shoulder and back nagged at Rose in 2014 and 2016, respectively, and he pulled out of an August 2018 World Golf Championships event citing joint tightness.The 38-year-old Olympic gold medalist has had time to bounce back, notably netting his 10th PGA tour victory in January with a two-shot win over Adam Scott at Torrey Pines.Rose, who took a month off in February after missing the cut at the Saudi International, is now looking to add to his trophy case with a second major win."I would take four, as long as it's one of each," Rose said. "That would be awesome. That would be enough." (Reporting by Amy Tennery; editing by Ken Ferris)
AUGUSTA, Ga. — They crowded hundreds deep around the 18th green, roaring when those lucky enough to be in front signaled the first sight of Tiger Woods in his familiar red coming up the fairway.Up by the clubhouse, the kitchen help stood in white jackets and hats, much like a previous generation did all those years ago. In front of them, a group of young people working this week as trash pickers tried unsuccessfully to find a piece of higher ground to witness history.Few in the huge throng had any hope of seeing anything. But they could hear, and on this day that was enough.Off to the side of the green, the Woods children had a much better view. His daughter, Sam, was a year old when dad won his last major championship and son, Charlie, had yet to be born.They had watched last summer as Woods tried desperately to break his major championship drought at the British Open, only to come up just short."I wasn't going to let that happen to them twice," Woods said.On a magical afternoon at Augusta National, there was no chance of that happening. Woods didn't let them or any of his millions of fans around the world down on a day that will live in Masters lore, already thick with Woods' achievements.This wasn't his signature win from 22 years ago, when he was the young phenom who thrilled the country by romping to victory for the first time at Augusta National.But it seemed just as good, just as satisfying, both to him and the massive galleries that did all they could to try and will him to a win."To come back here and play as well as I did and did all the things — all the little things well this week, and to do it here," Woods said, choking up at the thought. "This has meant so much to me and my family, this tournament, and to have everyone here, it's something I'll never, ever forget.At the age of 43, he's a major champion again after fighting his way through a leaderboard filled with young talent, most who list Woods as a golf hero. He seized control of the tournament with near kick-in birdies on the 15th and 16th holes.That got him his fifth green jacket, but this meant more. So much more.All the doubt. All the doubters.All the issues no one ever expected Woods to have."I don't know of a better comeback in sports in my lifetime," former champion Zach Johnson said.
LINCOLN, Neb. — Noor Ahmed outwardly lives her Muslim faith, and even growing up in a state as diverse as California she says she encountered hostility on the street, in school and on the golf course.One of the top junior golfers in Northern California coming out of high school, Ahmed was a starter in her first year at Nebraska and the No. 2 player most of this spring. She is believed to be the only golfer at the college level or higher who competes in a hijab, the headscarf worn in adherence to the Muslim faith.Arriving in Lincoln two years ago, Ahmed sensed hesitancy from teammates mostly from small Midwestern towns and unaccustomed to seeing a woman in a hijab. She didn't feel embraced until an unfortunate yet unifying event roiled the campus midway through her freshman year.A video surfaced of a student claiming to be the "most active white nationalist in the Nebraska area," disparaging minorities and advocating violence. The student, it turned out, was in the same biology lecture class as Ahmed.Teammates offered to walk with her across campus, and one who would become her best friend, Kate Smith, invited Ahmed to stay with her. She didn't accept but was heartened by the gesture."That," Smith said, "was when she realized how much each and every one of us care for her on the team, that it wasn't just like, 'Hey you're our teammate.' No, it's 'We want you to be safe, we want you to feel at home here.'"Having grown up in the post-9/11 era, Ahmed, like many Muslims in the United States, has been a target for bullying and verbal abuse. She began wearing the hijab in middle school.On the course, in an airport or even walking across campus she can feel the long stares and notices the glances. She said she has never been physically threatened — "that I know of" — and that most of the face-to-face insults came before she arrived at Nebraska.Much of the venom spewed at her now comes on social media. She has been the subject of several media profiles, and each sparks another round of hateful messages. She acknowledges she reads but doesn't respond to messages and that an athletic department sports psychologist has helped her learn how to deal with them."I've been called every racial slur in the book," she said. "I've been told explicitly that people who look like me don't play golf, we don't have a right to exist in America, you should go home. It would definitely faze me a little bit, but it never deterred me. I'm really stubborn, so I'm going to prove you wrong, just wait. When people think they're dragging me down, it kind of fuels the fire in me that I'm going to be a better golfer, I'm going to be a better student, I'm going to keep climbing up the ladder."The daughter of Egyptian immigrants is from a close-knit family in Folsom, California, and she steeled herself for the cultural adjustment she would have to make at Nebraska.She dealt with loneliness and anxiety, especially her freshman year. She had difficulty finding a support network. There is a small Muslim community on campus, but she didn't immerse herself in it. The demands on athletes are great, and they are largely segregated, eating and studying in facilities separate from those used by regular students.Nebraska coach Robin Krapfl said she was initially concerned about how teammates would react to Ahmed. Krapfl remembered meeting with her golfers and telling them about her."I could tell by a couple of the looks and maybe even a comment or two that they weren't 100 percent comfortable with that," Krapfl said. "A lot of our girls come from small-town communities that are very limited in their ethnicity. It's just the fear of the unknown. They had just never been exposed to being around someone from the Muslim faith."Krapfl said she saw a golfer or two roll their eyes, another shook her head. "I overheard, 'Why would Coach bring someone like that on the team?' "
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. — At last week’s Arnold Palmer Invitational, Phil Mickelson carded a 68 in the first round while chewing gum. The next day, without gum, he sprayed his shots all over the Bay Hill course and shot a 78.A coincidence? Mickelson thinks not.To boost his cognitive functioning, Mickelson, 48, started chewing gum during competition in January at the Desert Classic — and tied for second. Two starts later, chewing gum as he walked, Mickelson clinched his 44th PGA Tour title.“The chewing aspect stimulates the frontal cortex,” said Mickelson, who couldn’t get his putter activated Thursday in the opening round of the Players Championship. Mickelson, the 2007 champion, had a four-putt from 25 feet on the par-3 third hole, which was his 12th of the round, for a triple-bogey 6 on his way to a two-over-par 74. That left him nine strokes behind the leaders, Tommy Fleetwood and Keegan Bradley, who each posted a 65.“It didn’t help much today,” Mickelson said with a rueful laugh. But, to the amusement of his peers, Mickelson has no plans to give up the gum.“I’ve seen him chomping on that gum, and I was wondering what he was doing,” Steve Stricker said. “Leave it to Phil, I guess, to come up with that.”There is some actual science to Mickelson’s assertions. Studies have shown that chewing gum is associated with improved alertness and the ability to process new information, though the results are far from definitive. A 2011 study by psychologists at St. Lawrence University found that students who chewed gum and then discarded it performed demanding cognitive tasks like repeating numbers backward and solving complex logic puzzles better than those who did not chew gum.Mickelson’s caddie and younger brother, Tim, said he could not speak to the science of gum chewing, but he could vouch for Mickelson’s improved focus. Last year, he said, Mickelson on occasion would ask him to pick a club for him to hit because he couldn’t gather his thoughts. An inability to focus hadn’t been an issue this year, Mickelson’s brother said.In the copycat world of professional golf, where players have turned their searching minds to mouth guards, tobacco chewing and copper bracelets as performance aids, could Mickelson’s success this year spawn other gum chewers?Any players tempted to make like Violet Beauregarde, the “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory” character who obsessively worked the same piece of gum for months at a time, should consider themselves warned. Serge Onyper, who co-wrote the St. Lawrence University study, noted in an email on Wednesday that those who chewed gum for five minutes before getting rid of it benefited compared with those who did not chew gum at all. But, he wrote, “those who chewed the gum throughout the cognitive tasks did not benefit compared to those who did not chew gum.”Mickelson, 48, said he chews two pieces per round, but would not divulge the type or brand. “It’s not on the market yet,” he said.Gum comes with and without sugar, with caffeine and, now, infused with cannabidiol, or CBD, which has been used to treat a variety of symptoms, including joint inflammation. It is categorized by the tour as a dietary supplement and is not prohibited, though players are advised to use extreme caution when using it and other supplements because, in general, there is no guarantee that what’s on the label is what’s in the product.Tiger Woods noted that Michael Jordan chewed gum when he played basketball and said he has chewed gum on occasion for a quick sugar boost. There have been other gum chewers in the game, notably Payne Stewart, a three-time major winner. In the 1980s, the golfer Hubert Green bestowed upon Tim Norris the nickname Pac-Man because he chomped gum the way the arcade game character gobbled ghosts.Paul Azinger, NBC’s lead golf analyst, described Norris, the 1982 Greater Hartford Open champion, as “the greatest gum chewer in the history of golf,” a distinction that made Norris chuckle when it was recently relayed to him.Norris described his gum chewing as “a nervous habit” and said he preferred the spearmint flavor “because it was green, and if I did accidentally drop it, it blended into the grass.”
CAPE TOWN — Clifford van der Venter admits his own golf game is “pretty useless.” Nevertheless, he was drawn to one of South Africa’s most prestigious golf estates, stretching over 2,500 rolling acres with a Jack Nicklaus signature course, two full-size polo fields, three gyms and a winery.Grapevines flank the boulevards. Zebra and antelope nibble grass on a small reserve.After a fast-paced career in the corporate world, Mr. van der Venter, 54, enjoys strolling through the grounds of Val de Vie, a gated community 35 miles north of Cape Town that has been judged South Africa’s best for the past two years by New World Wealth, a market research group based in Johannesburg. He also feels extremely safe there.Estate developments — often built in combination with upscale golf courses — are hugely popular among wealthier homeowners in South Africa, consistently outperforming the general market, largely because they offer a combination of amenities and, as at Val de Vie, state-of-the-art security.An analysis of the sector in 2016 by Lightstone Property, a local valuations firm, identified approximately 6,500 estate developments across the country. These accounted for about 5 percent of all residential homes but more than 15 percent of the market value.Only the United States, with a population six times as large, has more of what are known there as gated communities.In a country with a long history of racial turmoil, the South Africa pattern invariably results in communities dominated by white people (only about 10 percent of South Africa’s population), with others effectively excluded by income. Mr. van der Venter, a person of color,was a senior executive at Caltex and British American Tobacco, among other companies, before retiring and moving here.Many of the communities combine armed guards, cameras and electric fences with recreational facilities like golf courses and gyms. Some, such as Raptor’s View, near Kruger National Park in the northeastern part of the country, include wildlife reserves.Basil Weinrich, a real estate consultant from Cape Town, said more than 40 percent of wealthy South Africans — defined as people earning more than about $70,000 a year— now either live or own property on security estates, a figure that is steadily rising.Crime dominates South African life. On average, 56 people are murdered every day, according to the most recent police statistics, making it one of the most violent countries on earth, according to the United Nations.The police recorded nearly 230,000 burglaries last year, or 625 daily. Some experts estimate that the true burglary figure is perhaps three times that high. Break-ins and car highjackings can quickly turn almost gratuitously violent, with victims beaten and raped if they do not quickly turn over valuables or open safes. Banks and high-end malls are routinely patrolled by guards holding automatic weapons.“South Africans consistently rank crime among their top concerns, second only to unemployment,’’ said Andrew Faull, a senior researcher at the Institute for Security Studies. But, he added, “although the middle class and wealthy South Africans may feel restricted by fear of crime, they are sigificantly less restricted than the poor majority.’’For people who can afford to move from “bubble of security to bubble of security,” he said, life can be “quite easy.”It was almost by accident that Mr. van der Venter became converted to this way of life.For more than a decade he had owned a sprawling property in Cape Town, not perturbed by its long, dark driveway or ramshackle fencing. Then he took a job in the east coast city of Durban, moving into an estate development popular among his new colleagues.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — It was a clash of the ages at the Masters Par-3 contest on Wednesday as 28-year-old Matt Wallace triumphed over 61-year-old Sandy Lyle during an afternoon of thrilling play that included four holes-in-one. A time-honored tradition at Augusta National, the Par-3 contest sees Masters competitors and the old guard play on a truncated course with shorter holes, with their children and spouses often serving as caddies.Along with collecting the trophy, however, comes a famous curse as no winner has gone on to win the Masters in the same year. Wallace, who kicks off his Masters bid on Thursday, shrugged off the so-called jinx, after a playoff win against two-times major winner Lyle."It got a little bit more serious than how the nine holes went and I guess I just I wanted to win this," Wallace said. "I want to break history somewhat." Some of the game's greats, such as Gary Player and Jack Nicklaus were involved alongside current players such as Bubba Watson and Dustin Johnson, and for a crowd hungry to see a hole-in-one, the day did not disappoint.Wallace landed an ace at the eighth hole, while Mark O'Meara, the 1998 Masters and British Open champion, snagged the day's first hole-in-one to wild applause, followed by 32-year-old Shane Lowry, who sunk one on the first hole.Nineteen-year-old Devon Bling equaled the record for the youngest registered player ever to make a hole-in-one on the course.Last year, Nicklaus' 15-year-old grandson, who was caddying for him, sunk a hole-in-one on the ninth hole, marking a memorable family moment in an event where one is as likely to see a toddler on the course as a major winner.One-year-old Azalea, named after Augusta's 13th hole, caddied for her father, 2017 Masters champion Sergio Garcia, and was an early crowd favorite as she toddled onto the green appearing completely at home on the course."The golfers are in their element but they're having fun," said Sean Neely, an Atlanta resident who has attended the Masters for 47 years.Seeing players on TV "it's like seeing a movie star," said Pam Herzwuran, who has visited the Masters for seven years. Seeing them with their families makes them feel more accessible, she said."It makes it so normal." (Reporting By Amy Tennery; Editing by Toby Davis)
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Augusta National Golf Club holds a unique place in the American psyche.Slow to integrate, and with only male members until seven years ago, the private club is among the most exclusive playgrounds in the country, a haven for masters of the universe and Southern aristocracy.And then, for one week each year, the club throws opens its gates to welcome tens of thousands of “patrons,” the world’s top golfers and a handful of aging legends. They all line up just after sunrise and enter a world bursting with color and towering pine trees.There is an unreal quality to it. The grass underfoot doesn’t feel like the grass in your front yard. Does that shade of pink and purple azalea exist anywhere else? How is it possible that amid all this vegetation, there are seemingly no bugs?Perhaps it’s best not to ask these questions. Answers will probably not be provided. So take in the splendor of the fans in their colorful golf shirts and sundresses reflecting off the ponds, and the magical talents of players who can skip golf balls off the water.Gaze at all those spots that had existed only on television. There’s the Hogan Bridge over Rae’s Creek. There’s the patch of pine straw where Bubba Watson stood when he somehow hooked that miracle shot onto the 10th green in 2012. And look at all those green blazers. The members wear these throughout the week, in case you were wondering.Open your eyes. There is much to see.
Jin Young Ko vaulted from fifth-ranked to No. 1 overall in the Rolex Women's World Golf Rankings on Monday, one day after the South Korean claimed her first major title.Ko fired a 2-under-par round of 70 on Sunday to win the 2019 ANA Inspiration at Mission Hills Country Club in Rancho Mirage, Calif.The 23-year-old Ko finished at 10-under 278 to become the fifth South Korean winner of the tournament.Now, she's the fifth South Korean player to reach No. 1 status, joining Inbee Park, Sung Hyun Park, So Yeon Ryu and Jiyai Shin."Reaching World No. 1 is exciting and I cannot believe that I have achieved this honor," Ko said in a statement. "I always keep my focus on the golf course and on my playing, but to win a major championship and be called the best player in the world is absolutely a great honor. I want to thank my family, my caddie and my manager for all of their support."Her title Sunday was Ko's second victory of 2019, as she also claimed the 2019 Bank of Hope Founders Cup in mid-March. With the win, she earned 625 points and extended her lead in the Race to the CME Globe, where she entered the tournament 177 points ahead of Nelly Korda (1,155).Sung Hyun Park, supplanted at No. 1 after five weeks, struggled to a 6-over 78 to finish at 4 over in a tie for 52nd. She fell to second place, just ahead of Thailand's Ariya Jutanugarn -- who started the year at No. 1.Australia's Minjee Lee and Japan's Nasa Hataoka round out the top five.American Lexi Thompson, who finished third on Sunday, jumped three spots to No. 6.--Field Level Media
Rory McIlroy went for the bold play, even if it turned out a little off line.Asked how he had dealt with four unfulfilled attempts to complete golf’s career Grand Slam, McIlroy offered a historical reference as perspective.“I guess I’ve become a lot more comfortable with the fact that I’m going to fail more times than I succeed at that certain conquest,” he said, pointing out that Abraham Lincoln even lost some elections. “He wound up being the president of the United States,” McIlroy said. “So I’ve still got a bit of time.”McIlroy knows the select fraternity he would join if he added a Masters to the titles he already won at the United States Open, British Open and P.G.A. Championship. The full set of majors has been captured by only five men, including Jack Nicklaus and Tiger Woods.Also this year, Jordan Spieth can achieve a career Grand Slam at next month’s P.G.A. Championship and Phil Mickelson can at the United States Open in June. But it’s McIlroy who is up first at Augusta National Golf Club in Georgia.“I know exactly the people I would be putting myself alongside,” he said. “It would be huge. But again, I can’t think about it that way.”He has lately been on a roll. Even for someone who seems to have plenty of time (McIlroy is 29), the momentum he brings into this year’s first major doesn’t come around often.Last month’s one-stroke victory at the Players Championship capped a run of six starts to open 2019 in which he finished no lower than sixth. He also reached the round of 16 at the WGC Match Play in March, eliminated on the 17th hole of a tense battle with Woods.“Right now it’s all Rory McIlroy,” said Paul Azinger, NBC’s lead golf analyst. “He’s in contention every week. We’ve criticized him whenever he didn’t win, then he goes ahead and wins the biggest event on the PGA Tour.”“You just get the feeling that it’s going to be a big Rory year.”Though McIlroy is No. 3 in the world rankings, behind Dustin Johnson and Justin Rose, no one has accumulated more ranking points since the calendar turned.“When his mind’s right and he’s putting good,” said Jason Day, who will also play at the Masters, , “I think he’s explosive.”McIlroy has shown an ability to pile up wins in bunches. He collected 14 of them worldwide from 2012 through 2015, including three of his four major championships. He was second on 12 other occasions during that span.That said, McIlroy’s current success has been marked by a different demeanor and he is calm as he considers the big picture. Tournament results can vary, but performance is the yardstick.“You’re not going to get frustrated playing good golf,” he said.
A day after Tiger Woods won his fifth Masters title and 15th major tournament in a rousing resurrection of his career, President Trump said Monday he would give him an honor almost as exclusive as a green jacket from Augusta National Golf Club: the Presidential Medal of Freedom.Mr. Trump said on Twitter that he would bestow the award, without saying when. “Because of his incredible Success & Comeback in Sports (Golf) and, more important, LIFE, I will be presenting him with the PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM!,” Mr. Trump wrote.The Presidential Medal of Freedom is the nation’s highest civilian honor, and is awarded to those who make outstanding contributions to national security or national interest, world peace, culture or other public or private endeavors. The medal has been awarded since 1963, and is typically given to a dozen or fewer people each year.Over the years numerous sports figures have received it, especially under the presidencies of George W. Bush, Barack Obama and Mr. Trump, all noted sports fans.Just last year Babe Ruth, Roger Staubach and Alan Page were awarded Presidential Medals of Freedom. Woods will not be the first golfer to get the award; Arnold Palmer and Jack Nicklaus were honored in consecutive years in the mid-2000s, and Charles Sifford, the first African-American to play on the PGA Tour, was honored in 2014. But it is rare for an active athlete to receive the honor.Mr. Woods has a longstanding relationship with Mr. Trump, an avid golfer. They own property near each other in Florida and have golfed together a number of times, both before and after Mr. Trump became president.In February, Mr. Trump tweeted a picture of himself with Woods and Nicklaus at the Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter, Fla. The next day, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter, “Tiger is back & will be winning Majors again!”Over the years Mr. Trump has repeatedly tweeted about watching Mr. Woods play golf.They are also business partners. Mr. Woods is designing the course at the Trump World Golf Club Dubai, set to open in 2019.Mr. Woods acknowledges having played golf with Mr. Trump and having eaten together, but otherwise is reluctant to speak about their relationship. “Well, he’s the president of the United States,” Mr. Woods said last year. “You have to respect the office.”Still, while several African-American athletes have criticized Mr. Trump or kept their distance, Mr. Woods, who is of African-American and Thai descent, has maintained his relationship with him.When asked last August after a tournament if he had any thoughts about race relations in America, Mr. Woods demurred. “No, I just finished 72 holes,” he said. “And really hungry.”
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Jack Nicklaus was fishing in the Bahamas on Sunday as Tiger Woods resumed circling him in the quest for Nicklaus’s record of 18 major golf championships. But in his news conference after winning the Masters for his 15th major title, Woods didn’t sound exactly bloodthirsty.“I’m sure that I’ll probably think of it going down the road,” Woods said, referring to Nicklaus’s 18 victories at golf’s four major tournaments. “Maybe. Maybe not. But right now, it’s a little soon, and I’m just enjoying 15.”Then again, Woods didn’t have to say much. His clubs had delivered a convincing argument that he is “trending in the right direction,” as Woods is fond of saying. Tony Finau, who was grouped with Woods in the final round, was more succinct.“From what I saw today,” Finau said Sunday, “obviously he’s not going anywhere.”Brooks Koepka, who has won three majors since 2017, felt confident going out on this limb: “I think 18 is a whole lot closer than people think.”How about three-months-off close?What Woods put into play Sunday was the elusive calendar Grand Slam — winning all four majors in the same year. No player in the modern era has done it. In golf’s storied history, only one man, the amateur Bobby Jones in 1930, has managed it.[What’s next for Tiger Woods? Here’s the schedule for golf’s major events.]Woods has come exquisitely close. He claimed the United States Open, the British Open and the P.G.A. Championship in 2000 and the Masters in 2001 for what became known as the Tiger Slam.The next two majors are at courses on which Woods already has a record of success.The P.G.A. Championship will take place next month at Bethpage Black on Long Island, site of Woods’s wire-to-wire victory at the 2002 U.S. Open (he also tied for sixth when the tournament returned there in 2009).The U.S. Open is in June at Pebble Beach in California, where Woods won the 2000 tournament by a record 15 strokes — and where he also won the annual PGA Tour event the same year. If Woods is going to chase the great white whale of golf records, he couldn’t ask for more inviting seas.During an 11-year major title drought that was exacerbated by injuries and ignominy, Woods needed to be in contention on the back nine in the final round a couple of times before he broke through. His first tests came at last year’s final two majors, and Woods acquitted himself well, sharing sixth place at the British Open and finishing second at the P.G.A. Championship.“The 15th was always going to be the hardest,” said Rickie Fowler, 30, who joined the PGA Tour in 2010 and had seen Woods win nine tour titles before Sunday.But two of the golfers who finished one stroke behind Woods — Xander Schauffele, 25, and Koepka, 28 — joined the tour after Woods’s last dominant season, his five-title haul in 2013. Of Woods’s 81 tour victories, one shy of tying Sam Snead’s career mark, they experienced only the 2018 Tour Championship up close and personal.
Augusta, Ga. — While the Masters is renowned for attracting the world's top players, a busy PGA tournament schedule and a field of competitors perpetually in flux means you never know who else might be in the field at Augusta National.First-timer Keith Mitchell likes it that way. The 27-year-old American makes his Masters debut by virtue of securing his first PGA championship last month at the Honda Classic, claiming victory with a final, 15-foot birdie putt."There are forty-something events, there are going to be guys that get their first win every year," Mitchell told reporters on Monday."What's so great about our sport is the unknown, someone who you might have never heard of wins this week and then you might be able to follow him for the next ten years."While the University of Georgia graduate played the Augusta National course as a college student, he is better acquainted with life among the throngs of spectators.Of course, a practice round in the glare of The Masters spotlight changed that. "There were probably more people watching me warm up on a Monday here than at a lot of tournaments I've played in my life," Mitchell said."I've always watched people and admired how they hit the shots and hit their wedges and the shapes of the drivers, and then I was the guy that people were watching."With six top-10 career PGA finishes, Mitchell will look to establish his foothold in the year's first major, when The Masters kicks off on Thursday. "I still kind of feel like a rookie and still feel just kind of in awe of the place," Mitchell said. "And I hope that never goes away." (Reporting by Amy Tennery; Editing by Ken Ferris)
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Second-round play at the Masters was suspended on Friday due to dangerous weather in the area of Augusta National.The horn sounded to clear spectators from the course with major winners Francesco Molinari, Jason Day and Brooks Koepka all sharing the clubhouse lead at seven-under.Players were greeted by steady rain as play began on Friday but the skies cleared allowing over half of the 87-player field to complete their rounds before action was halted.Several prominent players were still on the course when the horn blasted, including Rory McIlroy and Tiger Woods, who had just hit his tee shot on the par-three 12th. (Reporting by Steve Keating. Editing by Toby Davis)
AUGUSTA, Ga. — After 26 Masters appearances, it is hard to catch three-time champion Phil Mickelson off guard even with a revamped fifth hole that has been the talk of Augusta National this week.Steely play may be in order at the redesigned Magnolia, where the tee has been moved back 40 yards, but Mickelson told reporters on Tuesday that he was taking it in his stride."I think 4, 5, 6, 7 is a very difficult four-hole stretch and making it a little bit harder I think is a good thing," Mickelson said. "I always like making hard holes harder."Experience on the difficult greens is something Mickelson can rely on to help snag a Green Jacket for the fourth time, with his 100th career round at the Masters slated for Friday."There are always little subtleties and nuances that you have to relearn," he said."Every time I come out here and practise, I pick up a little something here or there that I did not know on how to play a certain shot from a certain position to a certain pin."If he can secure victory, it will be by defying the odds. Mickelson, who will turn 49 in June, is roughly two and a half years older than the oldest Masters champion Jack Nicklaus, who claimed his sixth victory in 1986 at the age of 46. Mickelson already has a career befitting one of the game's greats, having spent over 25 years on the PGA tour, with 195 top-10 finishes, 44 PGA championships and five major wins. That does not mean he is looking to slow down anytime soon."There's no reason now with the knowledge we have in fitness, the knowledge we have in biomechanics, and the knowledge we have with nutrition and so forth, that we, at a much older age than in the past, should not be able to perform at a very high level," Mickelson said.The only major to elude him has been the U.S. Open, in which he has either tied for or placed second on six times. But after winning the Pebble Beach Pro-Am in February, it seems a career grand slam may still be in reach since this year's U.S. Open will be played on the same course. (Reporting by Amy Tennery; editing by Ken Ferris)
(Reuters) - After missing the proverbial boat for the inaugural Augusta National Women's Amateur, the Jutanugarn sisters Ariya and Moriya instead made do with a chance to caddie in the par 3 competition at the Masters on Wednesday.They shared the bag toting duties for fellow Thai Kiradech Aphibarnrat, even teeing it up on one hole, where all three swung simultaneously.Ariya and Moriya turned professional in 2012, seven years before women finally got a chance to stride Augusta National's famous fairways in competition, albeit sans professionals."We want to play it," said world number three Ariya of the course as she and Moriya stood in their white caddie overalls outside the clubhouse on a warm and cloudless afternoon.A visit last year allowed Ariya to admire the beauty of Augusta."Last year when I walked with Kiradech all 18 (holes) twice, I thought this course is amazing," she said."I thought one time in my life I would really like to play here. I'm really jealous."Ariya and Moriya have earned between them $11 in career prize-money on the LPGA Tour.But that does not stop them from wishing they had enjoyed a chance to compete at Augusta National."We don't have that chance when it is our time," said Moriya, before adding "hopefully one day." (Reporting by Andrew Both; Editing by Christian Radnedge)
ORLANDO, Fla. — After his Friday round at the Arnold Palmer Invitational, Rory McIlroy spent the afternoon at Walt Disney World riding the Tower of Terror amusement park ride. He was persuaded to take the excursion by his wife, Erica, who reminded him that he visited Disney’s parks last year and two days later produced an enchanted final round for a come-from-behind victory, his 14th on the PGA Tour.For those who hitch their allegiances to McIlroy, following him can be a white-knuckle ride. McIlroy ranked first in the field in driving distance for the measured holes, 314 yards, and he played his way into the final Sunday pairing for the ninth time since January of last year — and for the third time in 2019. And for the ninth time since January of last year — and for the third time in 2019, McIlroy, a four-time major winner and a former world No. 1, could not close out a tournament from the last group.Francesco Molinari, the reigning British Open champion from Italy, who began the final round at Bay Hill five strokes off the lead, carded an eight-under-par 64 to finish at 12-under, two better than the 54-hole leader, Matthew Fitzpatrick, who posted a 71.McIlroy, who closed with a 64 on his way to last year’s title, shot 72 to finish in a four-way tie for sixth. It is his fifth top-six finish in five starts this calendar year, and also his 12th top-eight finish in his last 23 worldwide starts.During his final-pairing run of close calls, McIlroy, 29, has lost to some of the top players, including Tiger Woods, Dustin Johnson, Justin Thomas, Patrick Reed and Molinari.“I’m playing well,” McIlroy said. “I would much rather be putting myself in position to have a chance to win.”That is the lottery-half-won way of looking at it. The other way to view it is that when the title has been within his grasp, McIlroy has not hit his approaches close enough or putted well. On Sunday, he played the par-5s in one-under.“I just didn’t play the par-5s well enough,” McIlroy said, adding, “I was saying to Matt walking up 17 it’s like we’re hitting really good shots, but we’re leaving ourselves putts that we were sort of being defensive with because you don’t want to run it 6 feet by trying to hole them.”Putting was not a problem for Molinari, who drained four birdie attempts of more than 17 feet, including a 21-footer at No. 1 and a 44-footer at No. 18.“One of my best putting rounds ever,” said Molinari, who also coolly sank an 11-footer to save par at the second.The first of Molinari’s three victories last season came at the BMW P.G.A. Championship at Wentworth, which was the third time in 2018 that McIlroy was in the final group. He began the fourth round tied with Molinari, who shot four under for a two-stroke victory over McIlroy. By the end of the summer, Molinari had added the Quicken Loans and British Open titles — and McIlroy had played his way into three more final-round pairings: at the World Golf Championships event in Ohio, the BMW Championship and the Tour Championship.“When I won last year, playing with Rory,” Molinari said, “it wasn’t easy at all. So from there, I started building my confidence and just saying I could get it done.”Molinari, 36, was grouped for the first two rounds with Brice Garnett and Ted Potter Jr., two golfers with zero major titles and three PGA Tour wins between them.Despite his No. 10 world ranking and his star turn with Tommy Fleetwood for the European team at last year’s Ryder Cup, Molinari seemed easy to overlook on the leader board. Keith Mitchell, who consolidated his first tour title last week with a tie for sixth at Bay Hill, signed his scorecard for a closing 66 — and an eight-under total — while the leaders were on the front nine.Asked what he thought the winning score would be, Mitchell guessed 10 or 11 under and said, unbidden, “I think Rory McIlroy’s obviously proven himself time in and time out” so that if he went lower, he added, “I wouldn’t even be surprised.”
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. — A few dozen spectators and three grazing deer surrounded the first tee at Monterey Peninsula Country Club on Thursday, craning their necks to get a better look at the players beginning the hole. The foursome included Aaron Rodgers, the Green Bay Packers quarterback who grew up five hours away in Chico, starred collegiately at California and was trailed all day by cries of “Go Bears” — which he acknowledged by saying, “Go Bears, but not Chicago.”Rodgers, though, was not his group’s main attraction, and he was fine with that. In fact, he essentially signed up for a supporting role. Last month, he used his Twitter account to petition to play the first three rounds of the AT&T Pebble Beach Pro-Am with Choi Ho-sung, the 194th-ranked player in the world who was making his PGA Tour debut on a sponsor’s exemption.Choi’s swing was known in the United States long before he arrived at Pebble Beach. It has become a viral sensation because Choi, a South Korean native and a regular of the Japan Tour, is a cross between Chi Chi Rodriguez and Fred Astaire.Choi spins around on his follow-through as if his club is his dance partner. His pre-swing routine is also unique, resembling an oblique muscle stretch; he swivels to his left and his eyes lock on his left shoulder as he holds his club high, as if to light a kerosene street lamp. He pauses at the top long enough to exhale loudly, making a “shoo” sound before settling over his ball.Jordan Spieth, the three-time major winner and the 2017 champion at Pebble Beach, had seen videos of Choi and was among those eager to see him up close.“I actually was fascinated, clearly, by his swing, and the way he moves around,” Spieth said, adding: “It’s just really entertaining. I think people are really excited to see him this week.”Choi, 45, did not take up the game until he was around the same age as the 25-year-old Spieth, but he has developed a showman’s touch. The bigger the crowd, the more he appears to play to it. Upon being introduced to warm applause on the first tee, Choi bowed to the fans on three sides of the tee box before settling into his pre-shot routine.On a different tee, he took his driver head cover, decorated with studded stars, and pretended to give a back rub to Rodgers and Jerry Kelly, the other pro, by brushing it over their sweaters. Later, the other amateur, the actor Chris O’Donnell, was teasing Rodgers about his mustache, which called to mind Burt Reynolds’s facial hair in the 1970s film “Smokey and the Bandit.” Rodgers looked at Choi, who was standing nearby, and Choi gave him the thumbs up.“See,” Rodgers said, “Ho-sung likes it.”Choi surprised Rodgers with his English abilities, after Rodgers surprised Choi by greeting him in Korean. Kelly introduced himself to Choi on the practice green with an outstretched hand and a wide grin. “We will have so much fun!” he told him.After the round, Choi broke into a broad smile of his own and said that Kelly had been right.“I think my pairing was just as good as the weather,” Choi said through an interpreter, referring to the abundant sunshine and negligible breeze, “and I learned a lot from Jerry Kelly.”Choi knows that he has a lot of catching up to do. He was training for a job in the fishing industry, he said, until he lost the tip of his right thumb in a chain saw accident at 23.Doctors reattached the tip, and Choi redirected his focus, landing a part-time job at a golf course two years later. It was there that he honed his self-taught swing.This is his first trip to the United States, he said, and he arrived with loads of enthusiasm but not a single endorsement. His black cap and turquoise sweater both featured the Pebble Beach Golf Links logo, and his caddie carried a new TaylorMade bag that seemed tailor-made for Choi, with a silhouette logo of his follow-through, complete with the kick flourish.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — The fifth hole at Augusta National is certainly not the most famous, but this year it could be the hardest after being stretched so far that they had to reroute the road that ran behind the old tee. The par-four has been turned into a brute, lengthened some 40 yards to nearly 500 yards, officially 495 though the number will change slightly each day depending on where the pin is put.The tees will also likely be moved a few yards each day."I think number five is probably going to play the toughest hole now for sure," said world number one Justin Rose.The hole, which curves gently to the left without being a dogleg, still has two deep bunkers guarding the left-hand side, encouraging players to aim more for the right side of the fairway.Rory McIlroy, perhaps the longest hitter in the field, used to worry about his ball running through the fairway and into bushes on the right, and often used a three-wood off the tee for safety instead of a driver.Now he can swing away without fear."I think (hole) five has been a very good change in terms (that) it puts driver back in a lot of guys' hands that wouldn't necessarily hit driver on that hole," said the Northern Irishman."And you need to hit driver; because I came here last Wednesday, played in the morning, it was a little cold, a little damp and I hit four-iron into the green."If you hit three-wood and you're 30 yards back of (where driver would stop) you're on the upslope and you can hardly see the green."Tiger Woods succinctly summed up the new hole."It's just long," he said on Wednesday. "The bunkers are still deep. I think they are unplayable to get the ball to the green."The hole was parred more than two-thirds of the time in 2018, when it yielded only 26 birdies all week, along with 64 bogeys and four double-bogeys. It was the sixth hardest of the week.It is likely to give up even fewer birdies this week, but a lot more bogeys.
On Sunday, April 15, 1979, Ed Sneed was about to win the Masters. He was leading by three shots with three holes to go. Then, suddenly, the game became as cruel as it can possibly be.Sneed, who had started the day ahead by five, bogeyed 16, 17 and 18 — his par putt on 18 hung on the lip — then lost on the second hole of a sudden-death playoff to Fuzzy Zoeller. Sneed, who is now 74 and finished his career with four tour victories, never came close again to winning a major. He left in 1985 to go into the investment business.In a recent interview, Sneed reflected on that time. The conversation has been edited and condensed.How often does someone bring up 1979?For the first five years, there would be articles in magazines the week or month before the Masters. Every year, since that Masters, there’s been at least one or two guys who have called me. This year, there seems to be more focus on it, and I’ve had quite a few calls because it’s the 40th anniversary.How did losing that tournament affect your life?I probably would have played the tour longer. I don’t think it made me basically a different person. I’ve often said, in my reaction, nobody died. I had a chance to win a big golf tournament, and I didn’t. It did have an impact, but at the same time, I never felt like it destroyed me in any way.Watching the final round recently, it looked as if there were not any shots on the last three holes you’d want to take back except the approach on 18, which missed the green. Is that right?That’s right. I always heard, “Well, you hit to the right at 16.” I didn’t hit to the right at 16. I hit a draw. Why the ball didn’t bounce to the left, I don’t know. At 17, [where his approach finished a few yards over the green] I discovered the next year I had the wrong yardage by three or four yards.You thought the putt on 18 was in, didn’t you?I thought the putt would just barely move to the right. So, I hit the ball at the left side of the cup. And when it was about two feet away, it looked like it had moved a little bit toward the hole. I thought it was going right in, and then it hung on the left. It looked like a quarter of the ball was hanging over the hole.The next year, I was playing a practice round on Wednesday afternoon after the Par 3 tournament. I was by myself. I started at 10. At the 11th green, Hord Hardin, the [acting] tournament chairman, told me, “Ed, that was tough luck last year, but we feel that you waited about 12 seconds to tap it in, and under the rules you only had 10, and if it had fallen in, we would have been in a dilemma, and we probably would have had to penalize you a stroke.”You realized pretty soon that how you’d respond to the loss would be a test.I ended up going to the Tallahassee Open the next week, and one of the press guys sat down next to me, and this is something I’ve always held on to. When I got back to the house in Augusta that night, my girls at the time were 4½ years old and barely 2. My 4½-year-old had been watching television. When I walked in, she came running up to me and said, “Daddy, you won, you won.” I realized that it didn’t make any difference to them. I was still their dad.When people ask me, “Do I think about it?” I sure do. Not as much now as I used to. I don’t dwell on it. I’ve never felt like, “Why me?” You look at things that go on around the world, and other people’s circumstances. What did I do? I missed a putt to win the Masters. If that’s the worst thing that happened to me, even in just golf, so be it.
Tiger Woods on Monday withdrew from this week’s Arnold Palmer Invitational because of a neck strain. While Woods played down the injury, any fresh health setback to the game’s most popular player has often elicited alarm throughout the golf community.Recognizing that level of concern, and aware that a series of lower back surgeries nearly ended his career, Woods tried to mitigate the expected reaction to his exit from the Palmer event, which he has won eight times.“My lower back is fine, and I have no long-term concerns,” Woods wrote on his Twitter account.Woods, 43, indicated he has been bothered by the neck strain for “a few weeks,” and added: “I’ve been receiving treatment, but it hasn’t improved enough to play.”Woods’s neck issue may indeed be minor, but for many years when he struggled to play through myriad infirmities, Woods often withdrew from a tournament with a similarly short statement about a seemingly insignificant injury. In the end, he missed dozens of events, and his absences from competition lasted months because of multiple, serious knee operations and four back surgeries.On Monday, Woods did offer one encouraging sentence: “I hope to be ready for The Players.”The Players Championship, which is the PGA Tour’s flagship event and is often called a fifth major golf championship, runs from March 14 to 17. Woods’s optimism about playing in the tournament will help calm worries about his golf fitness for now.But should he miss that tournament, a fair amount of panic will probably ensue about his ability to continue a startling comeback that was one of the most uplifting stories in sports last year. The Masters begins in five weeks, on April 11.Six months ago, Woods completed an unforeseen return to golf’s upper echelon and ended a five-year winless drought, with a victory at the season-ending Tour Championship. It was the 18th tournament that Woods played in 2018 — his first full schedule of events since 2015. He did not miss a tournament he was scheduled to appear at last year.This year, Woods has already played three times. Eight days ago, he finished tied for 10th at the Mexico Championship. At that event, Woods did not mention any neck discomfort, and he did not say Monday how the injury occurred. In his two other events this year, Woods tied for 20th at the Farmer Insurance Open at Torrey Pines in late January, and he shared 15th place at the Genesis Open at Riviera in mid-February.Woods last won the Arnold Palmer Invitational in 2013, although he made a charge up the leaderboard at the event last year before stumbling in the final holes to finish in a tie for fifth place.“I’d like to send my regrets to the Palmer family and the Orlando fans,” Woods wrote on Twitter on Monday. “Its connection to Arnold makes it one of my favorite tournaments and I’m disappointed to miss it.”Woods, who has won 80 PGA Tour events and 14 major championships, has elevated his world golf ranking to 12th. That ranking had slipped as low as 1,199th while he battled various leg and back injuries.
The studios at Fox News, CNN and MSNBC filled with anchors and commentators, waiting for Attorney General William P. Barr to make news on Sunday afternoon with the release of a letter summarizing the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.As the cable teams assembled, NBC News prepared to interrupt a golf tournament and ABC News got ready to break into coverage of a professional video-game contest.NBC was the first broadcast network to provide details of Mr. Barr’s four-page summary of Mr. Mueller’s far lengthier and still unpublished report. The network’s justice correspondent, Pete Williams, stood before the Justice Department headquarters in Washington and simply read aloud from the attorney general’s letter to Congress.After he was through, Kate Snow, the NBC anchor on duty, said, “Some of what you just read cold on the air is a lot of legalese.”Mr. Williams scanned the document and found a key sentence about Russia’s attempt at meddling in the 2016 presidential election: “‘The special counsel did not find that the Trump campaign or anyone associated with it conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in these efforts,’” Mr. Williams said, reading aloud.He also said that, while the report apparently did not conclude that President Trump had committed a crime, it also did not exonerate him.On CNN at roughly the same time, three correspondents, who were seated side by side (by side) in the network’s Washington studio, stared at their phone screens and called out important phrases from the Barr letter.Their well-meaning efforts were interrupted by the anchor Wolf Blitzer, who read aloud a tweet that had been posted by Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York: “‘The Special Counsel states that ‘while this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him,”’” Mr. Blitzer said.Mr. Blitzer ceded the stage to Jeffrey Toobin, the CNN legal analyst, who said that, in his view, Mr. Mueller’s report amounted to “total vindication of the president and his staff on the issue of collusion.”After a fanfare of timpani drums, George Stephanopoulos of ABC broke into that network’s broadcast of a professional video-game contest at 3:42, a few minutes after NBC had aired its live reading of the news-making letter.The matter of Mr. Mueller’s elusiveness came up during the ABC special report. “We never heard from the man in 22 months,” Mr. Stephanopoulos said of the special counsel.Pierre Thomas, the senior justice correspondent for ABC, nodded in agreement and recalled being told that “Robert Mueller would be the president’s best friend, if he found no evidence of collusion.”CBS waited until 3:51 to cut into its coverage of the annual men’s college basketball tournament with a 90-second report by Paula Reid, a correspondent covering the Justice Department and the White House.When a full gamut of panelists appeared on CBS, they were not news reporters, but sports commentators, and they were offering halftime analysis. “It feels like it should be more than an 8-point lead for Carolina,” Greg Gumbel said of a game between the University of Washington and the University of North Carolina. (CBS followed the game commentary with a second report from Ms. Reid and its chief White House correspondent, Major Garrett, also during halftime.)Hours before Mr. Barr had provided his rundown of the much-anticipated report — which Mr. Mueller had assembled in seemingly leakproof silence over a 22-month period — it was the main fodder for the politically oriented Sunday morning shows and early-afternoon cable news programs.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Thirty-three years since Jack Nicklaus won the Masters at age 46, he remains the oldest claimant of the Green Jacket and perhaps only Phil Mickelson among this year's competitors is a realistic chance to break the Golden Bear's mark.But 61-year-old Bernhard Langer thinks that sooner or later a grey-haired older player will win a major, perhaps even the Masters.Nicklaus showed what is possible not just by winning here in 1986 but by going close 12 years later in what would have been a victory of historic proportions.He was in contention until the final few holes before eventually finishing equal sixth, four shots back of winner Mark O'Meara.But for all the talk of the value of experience at Augusta National, it has been an exception rather than the rule for players over 50 to contend for the Green Jacket.Spaniard Miguel Jimenez finished fourth in 2014, three months after his 50th birthday, while the performance of Langer that same year was also impressive as he finished equal eighth at age 56.Langer, never a particularly long hitter even in his prime, says the length of Augusta National eventually catches up with him over 72 holes.He thinks a longer hitter is more likely to crack the code, someone who can still almost match distance with the young bucks from the tee."It's a lot harder for me now than 20-30 years ago," 1985 and 1993 champion Langer told Reuters."The course has gotten longer. The last few years I'm wearing out my three and four-iron and two-hybrid into these par-fours, whereas these young guys are hitting eight-irons. "It's just hard to compete when you have that disadvantage."Langer gets a sobering baptism these days right off the bat at the par-four first, which now stretches to 445-yards. When the hole plays into a cool north-westerly headwind, his drive invariably longs on the upslope, leaving him so far from the green that he has a blind second shot."I can't even see the flag (sometimes)," he said.Not even meticulous course management and a consistent putting stroke can make up for the 50 yards or more head start that he is giving younger players off the tee.
LOS ANGELES — Matt Kuchar had heard enough. Battered by criticism that he had essentially stiffed a caddie who helped him win a tournament last November in Mexico, he took action to make amends on Friday, issuing a statement in which he apologized for his initial actions and also said he had now paid the caddie a good deal more money.In the 15-line statement, which was released while he was playing the rain-delayed first and second rounds of the Genesis Open in Los Angeles, Kuchar said he had now given the caddie, David Giral Ortiz, a much bigger sum than the $5,000 he originally paid him after capturing the first-place prize of $1.296 million at the Mayakoba Golf Classic.In issuing the statement, Kuchar clearly hoped to put an end to the bad tidings that had sullied his image and cast him as a tone-deaf American with a let-them-eat-cake attitude.“Golf is a game where we call penalties on ourselves,” Kuchar said in the statement. “I should have done that long ago and not let this situation escalate.”The statement did not specify how much more Kuchar had sent Ortiz’s way, but it appears an additional $45,000 was paid out.Ortiz had been asking for a total of $50,000, according to Marc Graubart, a Houston businessman working on the caddie’s behalf, and Kuchar, in his statement, said Ortiz had now been paid what he was seeking.Kuchar’s apology came at the end of a trying week for him, and after a challenging first round on Friday at the Riviera Country Club, where he heard the usual genial chants of “Kooooch” from some of his fans but also a number of barbs from others about his perceived parsimony.Kuchar, 40, has earned more than $45 million as a professional golfer, but his problems began when he won a tournament in Playa del Carmen, Mexico, that he had basically entered on a whim.In a typical PGA Tour arrangement, a caddie receives a flat rate of $1,500 for a tournament, which helps cover expenses, and a bonus worth 10 percent of the golfer’s winnings. For Ortiz, a local caddie who is also known as El Tucan, that would have amounted to about $130,000.Instead, Ortiz told Michael Bamberger of Golf.com, he and Kuchar had agreed on a $3,000 payment plus an unspecified amount of whatever money Kuchar won at the tournament.Kuchar, meanwhile, said he had promised Ortiz $1,000 if he missed the cut, $2,000 if he made the cut, $3,000 for a top-20 finish and $4,000 for a top-10 finish, with no specifications for how much more he would pay Ortiz if he finished first.Which Kuchar proceeded to do, ending a four-year winless drought. At that point, Kuchar gave Ortiz $5,000 — the $4,000 he said they had agreed upon for the top-10 finish and a $1,000 bonus. Kuchar confirmed that total to Golf.com and added, “For a guy who makes $200 a day, a $5,000 week is a really big week.”But the tone and content of that comment were quickly pounced on, particularly by people from outside the insular world of golf. And some golf fans weren’t too pleased by Kuchar’s attitude, either. As Kuchar walked down the first fairway on Friday morning, one fan stopped walking and shouted in Kuchar’s direction. “Frugal, just frugal,’’ the fan yelled. “I pay my caddie more.”The fan, Brent Weiss, who described himself as a kindergarten teacher, said Kuchar had been his favorite player. But not anymore.“How do you tip a caddie $1,000 when you’ve made $1.3 million?” Weiss said. “To me, I think that’s called discrimination.”
(Reuters) - Ko Jin-young joined the long list of South Korean LPGA major champions on Sunday with a three-shot victory over compatriot Lee Mi-hyang at the ANA Inspiration in Rancho Mirage, California.Ko, last year's Rookie of the Year, overcame a late wobble in the final round to became the fifth Korean to win the event after Grace Park (2004), Yoo Sun-young (2012), Park In-bee (2013) and Ryu So-yeon (2017).She is the 15th woman from South Korea to win a major, the most of any country other than the United States, and the victory is projected to see her top the world rankings."I had a great round and a great week. I felt nervous today but I just tried to keep myself calm," said Ko.After her lead had been reduced to one shot with three holes to play following two quick bogeys Ko responded like a true champion, a perfectly-judged 10-foot birdie putt at the 16th proving the decisive blow at Mission Hills .She clinched in style with another birdie at the last for a two-under-par 70, bursting into tears when the putt fell."My caddie told me on the 18th that I had a two-shot lead and to not worry, just enjoy it," Ko said."So many Korean players had a great tournament, and it's a real honor for me to win."Ko finished at 10-under 278, while Lee carded 70 for second place on seven-under, a shot ahead of American Lexi Thompson (67).Kim In-kyung, who started the day in second place, fell out of contention with a double-bogey at the 11th, where her ball got stuck up a tree, forcing her to take a penalty stroke.She shot 74 and tied for fourth with Spaniard Carlota Ciganda, five shots behind Ko.The 23-year-old Ko said she had been dreaming of winning the event for five years and had always wanted to make the traditional winner's jump into Poppie's Pond."I always think about when I can go in that pond," she said. "That's today."Despite the distractions and pressure of leading a major on a Sunday, Ko said she got over the line by trusting her swing."I just focused on my swing, on the putting, that's why I win this week," she said.
AUSTIN, Tex. — Rory McIlroy never trailed in his first three matches at Austin Country Club, advancing to the round of 16 at the World Golf Championships match-play event without having to play the 17th or 18th holes. He was looking to extend his front-running ways in an elimination match against Tiger Woods, whose superlative career has been a sucker pin that McIlroy recently decided to stop taking dogged aim at.McIlroy, 29, has 15 PGA Tour titles, including four majors, which makes him the leader of the men’s 20-something set but far behind a pre-30-year-old Woods’s pace of 46 PGA Tour titles, including 10 majors.McIlroy came into this week as perhaps the hottest player in the men’s game, with six top-six finishes in his first six starts in 2019, including a victory at the Players Championship. But unlike Woods, whose stated goal when he was McIlroy’s age was to win every time he played, McIlroy spoke earlier in the week of the likelihood that he would fail since he wins less than 10 percent of his starts. With odds like that, McIlroy has learned to measure success in other ways, like framing the struggles as growth opportunities and accentuating the positives.McIlroy had never faced Woods, 43, in match play, and he clearly had no idea how quickly the conditions could change from warm to chilly. There was the rain and wind that blew in on the back nine, which was forecast. But McIlroy ought to also have been prepared to face an opponent, in Woods, who was a dispassionate adversary intent on making putts, not conversation.McIlroy’s easy familiarity is with Woods, the friend and mentor. He sometimes practices with Woods, his South Florida neighbor, and he and his family regularly dine at the restaurant that Woods owns. McIlroy’s last two major victories came in 2014, the year of Woods’s worsening back problems, which led to four operations and two essentially lost seasons.So as McIlroy’s stature was growing, he got only glimpses of Woods, the foe and mentalist whose competitive fire often reduced his would-be rivals to ash.On Saturday, a sizable congregation of early-rising Woods worshipers watched a match of dueling personalities — Woods’s intensity versus McIlroy’s inclusivity. In the end, the edge belonged to Woods, whose 2-and-1 victory slowed McIlroy’s momentum as he rolls into Augusta for the Masters in two weeks.In the afternoon quarterfinals, Lucas Bjerregaard sent Woods packing with a 1-up defeat, which Woods described as a snag in his pre-Masters preparation. “I was really hoping to play Sunday,” he said, referring to the semifinals and final.Woods’s match against McIlroy, which ended when Woods drained a 15-foot par putt to halve the par-3 17th hole, began to turn on the par-4 fifth when McIlroy had an 8-foot birdie putt to go 1-up. He backed away from the attempt and waited for more than a minute while the players on an adjacent fairway hit their shots. The pause gave McIlroy plenty of time to think about the putt, which he then missed.Funnily enough, McIlroy might have been one of the few people at the hole who was aware that there were others in action. This was Woods’s first appearance as a professional in Austin, and fans flocked to watch him play as if he may never again come their way.McIlroy tried to draw Woods into casual conversation early in the match only to have his attempts peter out like short putts. They did not talk during a lengthy delay on the fifth tee while they waited for the fairway to clear. McIlroy idly bounced a ball several times on the face of his driver. Woods took his ball, placed it between his right index and middle fingers and flipped it in the air and caught it between the same two fingers, a sequence he repeated several times.McIlroy missed a 3-footer to lose the 10th hole, extending Woods’s lead to 3-up. But as the weather turned, so, too, did the momentum. As the wind began to whip and a cold rain started to fall, McIlroy won the 12th and 13th holes with his first birdies of the day. The match looked as if it might be getting away from Woods when he hit his drive at the par-4 15th way left, where water lurked. But his ball bounced off someone or something and came to rest in grass trampled down by fans. After a great third shot, Woods sank a nervy 8-footer to match McIlroy’s par.If Woods’s putter hurt McIlroy’s comeback hopes, the final blow was self-inflicted. On the par-5 16th, McIlroy’s drive traveled 395 yards. He was in the fairway, 173 yards from the pin, and somehow made what amounted to a 7 on the hole. With Woods on the green in three, McIlroy produced his worst swing of the day. The ball landed in the rough near the lip of a greenside bunker, and he pitched his next shot over the green as fans in the vicinity scattered.The ball came to rest against a wooden bulkhead, and McIlroy took an unplayable lie, leading to Woods winning the hole without having to hit a putt. McIlroy was muttering to himself as he walked to the 17th tee, but after Woods ended the match on the 17th green, McIlroy had nothing to say.He hopped into a cart and left the grounds without talking to reporters. It was a rare fit of pique from McIlroy, who has worked hard over the past year to moderate his emotions no matter what score he cards.
Although my day job is writing the foreign affairs column for The New York Times — more Persian Gulf than fairway golf — thinking about golf and playing as often as I can is my all-consuming hobby. So like millions of others, I was awed by Tiger Woods’s comeback for the ages by his winning the Masters at 43 years old. What can be learned from it?It’s hard for nongolfers to appreciate the scope of Tiger’s physical and psychological achievement, after he went through four back surgeries and the global tabloid exposure of his industrial-scale marital cheating.If I think of the news I normally cover, it would be as if Bill Clinton came back and defeated Donald Trump for president in 2020. Or, in technology, it’s the equivalent of Steve Jobs founding Apple, losing Apple and then coming back and winning all four “technology majors’’ — the Apple desktop, laptop, iPhone and iPad — with a reborn Apple.The biggest takeaway for me is the reminder of the truism that golf is the sport most like life, because it is played on an uneven surface and everything is on you. So good and bad bounces — and self-inflicted mistakes — are built into the game. And so much of success in golf, as in life, is about how you react to those good and bad bounces. Do you quit? Do you throw your club? Do you cheat? Do you whine? Do you blame your caddie?Or do you say what the greatest golfers say when a bounce turns against them or their ball ends in a divot in the middle of the fairway and only a great shot will get them back into the hole? They all say to their caddie the same two words: “Watch this.” And then they pull off a remarkable shot that winds through the trees, over the hill and past the sand trap, avoids the pond on the left and lands right in the middle of the putting green — which is exactly the shot Tiger hit on the 11th hole out of the trees at Augusta National on Sunday.To do that under pressure is stunning, but it is not just luck or even pure physical attributes. It is about practice — hours and hours and hours. Gary Player liked to say, “The more I practice the luckier I get.” And that is where, for me, the meaning of Tiger’s comeback begins: his willingness to commit to endless hours of physical rehabilitation and then endless hours of practice. How many of us have that iron will? But the physical part is the least of it.Last year I wrote the foreword to a golf instruction book by my teacher, in which I argued that what makes golf so difficult — but also so satisfying when you get it right — is that you have to combine four things: physics, geometry, geography and psychology. Tiger’s genius on Sunday, and so often throughout his career, is his ability to master all four better than anyone else.How so? Well, every golf swing always starts with a geography quiz: How far away is that target and how is it set in the landscape? Is it elevated? Is it on a ledge? Is it in a bowl? Is it by an ocean cliff, a stream or a pond?Then comes the geometry lesson: At what angle and speed do I have to launch this little white ball to match, or take advantage of, this geography and get as close as possible to the hole, taking into account the wind and temperature and landscape as well?Then comes the physics lesson: How do I move my arms and legs and shift my weight — and at what speed, torque, size of backswing, ball position and swing finish — to ensure that my little white ball solves this geography-geometry riddle and lands as close as possible to my target?And, finally, what emotional and psychological mind-set do I need to increase the odds that my body and arms will move into the ideal launch positions — to achieve the geography-geometry solution that I’ve designed in my head. As any golfer will tell you, there is no greater buzz in the world than solving that puzzle with your body and watching your golf ball soar toward its intended target with the perfect geometry against the backdrop of some stunning geography.Tiger did that several times Sunday, and you could feel the buzz, and none more intensely than on Augusta National’s perilous 16th hole, where he launched his ball on the perfect arc over the water, softly curbing right to left with the terrain and then landing in the precise two-foot-diameter circle so that it would then roll 20 feet down the slope and stop 15 inches below the hole. Geography, geometry, physics and psychology all working in perfect unison.You cannot overestimate the psychological aspect of that shot. Golf is such a head game, and if you are distracted by something, you’ll never put the geography, geometry and physics together at the level needed to win in professional golf. That’s why Tiger’s game deteriorated so far after his infidelities had been broadcast all over the world in 2009, and even before his back gave out. You could actually see it when Tiger walked through a golf gallery back then. His eye never wanted to meet those of his fans, because he knew that they knew that he knew that they knew that he’d been a first-class jerk.What was in his head translated into his hands, and it translated into his scores. For the better part of a decade, he could not win a major until his back was healed and he got the monkey of his own misdeeds off his back — by becoming a good father and a better person to his fans and his fellow golfers. You could see him looking everyone in the eye in the last couple of years, and it finally unlocked his fan base. It gave them permission to root for him again, full-throated, despite all the ways he’d disappointed them. And that clearly unlocked his mind, and I am sure his body, too, so he could swing freely again.And that leads to another way that golf is so much like life. Each and every round is a journey, and, like all of life’s journeys, it’s never a straight line. It’s always full of crazy bounces, self-inflicted mistakes and unexpected detours, and therefore always a journey of discovery about yourself and your playing partners. And, if you love the game, it’s an everlasting journey in search of self-improvement — always trying to get your geography, geometry, physics and psychology in perfect alignment.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — As Patrick Reed surveyed his second shot, he seemed to have a dozen worries on his mind.Which way was the wind blowing? Where on the green should he land his ball? Would the fans in his peripheral vision stop moving?In a sport where the ball is still and the mind is active, and where distractions from unruly fans, bad bounces or sudden gusts of wind abound, focus can be difficult to maintain. But during the first round of the 2018 Tour Championship in Atlanta, it became nearly impossible. Reed took one last look at his target and what he saw nearly made his head go haywire.Why was his estranged father standing behind the green?No one on the PGA Tour these days has his powers of concentration tested as much as Reed, whose sometimes brash personality generates intense reaction among his peers and the public alike. For every person like the two-time major winner Curtis Strange, who said that he admires Reed’s self-belief, there are dozens who will never forgive him for proclaiming himself “a top-five player in the world” when he was 23 years old and ranked No. 20.Yet easily the worst distraction that Reed faces any week, but especially this one, when he will defend the Masters title he won last year, is the possibility that at any moment he will look up and come face-to-face with the most painful chapter of his life.Reed’s parents live six miles from Augusta National Golf Club, in a two-story, Southern-style Colonial replete with a bedroom shrine to their first child and only son, who hasn’t stepped foot in the house since 2012. This week should be a joyous homecoming for Reed, who led Augusta State (now Augusta University) to back-to-back national championships and will preside over Tuesday’s legends-laden Champions dinner. But instead it has all the makings of a nightmare, with his acrimonious relationship with his family threatening to become as much a part of this year’s Masters narrative as his attempt to become the first golfer since Tiger Woods in 2002 to successfully defend his title.“I wouldn’t at all be surprised if they show up,” Reed said.Reed, 28, has steadfastly declined to speak publicly about the reasons for the family schism. In a Sports Illustrated story in 2015, Reed’s mother insinuated that the rift resulted from Reed’s marriage, at age 22, to the former Justine Karain, against the advice of his parents who worried that he was too young.Reed’s parents were not invited to last year’s Masters, when their son held off a challenge from Rickie Fowler and Jordan Spieth down the stretch, just as they were not invited to his 2012 wedding. They have not met either of his two young children. To attend this week’s tournament, they will have to enter the grounds with badges they did not obtain from him.Last year the drama was confined to the course, but in the year since, Reed said he knew of two occasions in which his father and younger sister, Hannah, followed him at golf tournaments. Their motivation remains a mystery. When contacted for this article, Reed’s parents politely declined to comment. In an email, Reed’s mother replied, “At this time we have no comment on this subject and we hope you will respect the privacy of Hannah, Bill and myself.”Danny Coulson, a former deputy assistant director of the F.B.I. who directs the PGA Tour’s security, saw Reed’s father at the first of the two events where Reed also noticed him, last September’s Tour Championship at Atlanta’s East Lake Golf Club. Coulson said he had cordially explained to Bill Reed what he and his staff have expressed over the years to Patrick: If Reed’s father wishes to watch golf, he is free to do so unless he does or says anything that would warrant his ejection.Reed had other guests at the Tour Championship. He is extremely close to the Karains. One of Justine’s brothers, Kessler Karain, is his caddie and another of her brothers, Dan Karain, was visiting from Texas to lend his support. Justine stayed home in Houston that week, but from his spot in the gallery, Dan Karain was the first to recognize Reed’s father and sister behind East Lake’s fifth green as Reed was preparing to hit.Reed said afterward that he wasn’t aware that his father and sister were there until the par-4 17th hole, when he was sizing up his approach shot and he noticed them standing along the rope line behind the green. He said he immediately tried to steer his focus back to golf.Reed was wild off the tee that day, hitting only six fairways, but later said his problems were strictly self-inflicted. If he had noticed his father and sister on the front nine, he said, “I would have called for security to throw them out.” But those were his emotions boiling over after a round so frustrating that he went straight to the range after signing his scorecard and hit dozens of balls.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — The methodical, ever calculating Bryson DeChambeau, who last week put himself through a 14-hour practice session to decipher the effect of what he called the “spin loft curve” of his wedges, was asked late Thursday to assess the final nine holes of his first round at the 2019 Masters.DeChambeau, who birdied six of those nine holes, including the last four, responded with neither a technical term nor a scientific one.“Magical,” he said.On a favorable weather day that produced 28 rounds under par, DeChambeau was one the last competitors on the Augusta National Golf Club grounds, and he played as if enchanted by a spell.His last full shot to the 18th hole seemed destined to roll into the hole for an eagle until the flagstick deflected it away. DeChambeau instead tapped in from about 2 inches for a final, stress-free birdie, which gave him a six-under-par 66 and tied him for the lead with Brooks Koepka.It was just the ninth competitive Masters round for DeChambeau, 25, and the first time he had recorded a score in the 60s. In the past, DeChambeau freely conceded that he felt uncertain in the sanctified setting of golf’s most tradition-laden event.But on Thursday, DeChambeau showed a newfound maturity.“It was understanding how to control certain emotions on the golf course,” he said. “Just from a nerve perspective, being comfortable in different situations and being able to say, ‘I can do this, this is not a problem.’”DeChambeau was far from the only top golfer firing away at greens softened by rain earlier in the week.Koepka also surged late in his round to remind the field, should anyone forget, that he had won three of the last seven major championships, two of them with record scores.Asked about that, Koepka, 28, said evenly: “I enjoy the big stage. That’s what you’re remembered for.”One stroke off the lead was Phil Mickelson, who had two bogeys and five birdies on the back nine.The 48-year-old Mickelson seemed rejuvenated by his round of 67, which matched his score from the final round of last year’s tournament, when he finished in a tie for 36th.“But this was a lot of fun,” a smiling Michelson said Thursday. “It was great.”Dustin Johnson, the world’s second-ranked golfer, and Ian Poulter were two strokes behind the leaders.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — As Tiger Woods was making his stirring late charge up a bunched Masters leaderboard Friday, he was chasing a formidable cast of rivals that included six major golf championship winners.Any one of them could have tripped up Woods’s run at the lead as the tournament reached its halfway point.Instead, for one alarming moment, it appeared that a stumbling security official at Augusta National Golf Club might derail Woods’s most memorable Masters surge in years.After Woods hit a shot out of the trees left of the 14th hole, a sprinting uniformed guard, who was trying to control the crowd just behind Woods, slipped on wet grass and slammed into Woods’s right ankle. Woods recoiled and limped forward, hopping on his left foot several times before regaining his footing.But Woods, who grimaced but never looked back, kept striding toward the green. In fact, the episode seemed to spur him to greater heights.With the galleries around him cheering wildly, Woods birdied the 14th and 15th holes, and he had two choice opportunities in the closing holes to vault into the lead. While those birdie putts slid past the hole, Woods still managed a four-under-par 68 and a two-day score of six under that left him a shot off the tournament lead shared by five golfers.Jason Day, Brooks Koepka, Adam Scott, Francesco Molinari and Louis Oosthuizen — all major winners — were tied at seven under.[Read about how Jason Day is using pain to his advantage.]After his round, Woods played down the collision with the security official.With a smile, Woods said: “Accidents happen, and you move on. I’ve had galleries run over me. When you play in front of a lot of people, things happen. But it’s all good.”Woods insisted he was not injured in the accident, which looked a little like a base runner trying to take out an infielder at second on a double-play attempt.When pressed on whether he was physically sound for the Masters’ weekend rounds, Woods grinned and answered: “Yeah, other than having four knee surgeries and four back surgeries, I’m fine. Good to go.”On a day when most of the top scores were produced by golfers teeing off in the morning, with the sun out, Woods’s ascent up the leaderboard as an evening rainstorm drenched the golf course was something of a surprise.At one point, it seemed the poor weather could undermine Woods, as play was suspended just after he hit his tee shot to the menacing 12th green, about 5 feet behind the hole.When play resumed 29 minutes later, Woods, who admitted he grew stiff during the delay, missed the birdie putt. Then his short birdie putt on the 13th hole stopped an inch in front of the hole’s center. At the time, Woods was stuck at four under for the tournament.
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. — The celebration was muted, even if Pebble Beach Golf Links was at its most radiant on Monday morning, with clear skies and bright sunshine casting the Pacific Ocean, the 18th hole and Phil Mickelson in an exquisite light. Mickelson turned to Paul Casey, the player he had vanquished to win his fifth Pebble Beach Pro-Am title after a lengthy weather delay, to thank him for helping produce the sublime stagecraft.With Casey carrying a three-stroke lead into the final round, Mickelson was forced to bear down over the final 18, and he produced a seven-under 65 in the final round. Mickelson’s 72-hole total was 19-under 268, three strokes better than Casey, a friend and fellow Arizona State alumnus.So focused was Mickelson during the last round that he tried to persuade Casey and tournament officials to finish the final two holes amid fading light Sunday evening.Casey, who ended up winning the team event with his amateur partner, Don Colleran, declined to play on, and after they both finished with a par and birdie on the final holes in front of a robust crowd of early risers the next morning, Mickelson gave credit where it was due.“Paul made the tough call, but it was the right decision,” Mickelson said, adding, “Sometimes I just get in my own little bubble and I don’t see the big picture.”Mickelson’s decision-making in the caldron of competition can sometimes be a liability, as was evident in his collapse on the final hole of the 2006 U.S. Open at Winged Foot — or more recently, in his decision to one-time a moving putt during the third round of last year’s U.S. Open at Shinnecock Hills.But in closing out his 44th PGA Tour victory this week, Mickelson, 48, was a study in restraint. After his birdie putt at the 18th hole dropped, he picked the ball out of the hole as though he were retrieving a package from his front stoop. It was Mickelson’s second victory in nearly a year — he won the World Golf Championships event in Mexico City last March — and his first on U.S. soil in 2,199 days, since he captured the 2013 Waste Management Phoenix Open.Any victory is special at Pebble Beach, a historic venue with personal resonance for Mickelson and his family, but he hopes a more meaningful celebration on the 18th green awaits him in June, for the 119th U.S. Open — the only major tournament that Mickelson has not won.Can he strike gold twice at Pebble Beach in the same year? Two men have proved it’s possible; Jack Nicklaus in 1972, on his way to a seven-victory season, and Tiger Woods in 2000, when he won nine PGA Tour events. Nicklaus was in his 30s in 1972 and Woods in his 20s in 2000, both at the peak of their powers.Mickelson will turn 49 on the final day of this year’s U.S. Open, and a win would make him the oldest men’s major champion, surpassing Julius Boros, who was 48 when he won the 1968 P.G.A. Championship. Mickelson’s younger brother and caddie, Tim, suggested people discount Mickelson’s chances at their peril.“He’s won twice now in the last 11 months,” Tim Mickelson said, adding, “Obviously it shows he can win still.”Mickelson’s game appears to be aging as well as did the bottle of 1990 Romanée-Conti wine that he drank from the Claret Jug after winning the 2013 British Open. He has a second and a first in his last three starts — with a missed cut at the Phoenix Open sandwiched in between. The resurgence of Mickelson and the 43-year-old Woods has made the men’s game infinitely more compelling.“I believe that if I play my best, if Tiger plays his best, it’s good enough to win on any week,” Mickelson said, adding, “I just think that both myself and Tiger are going to have a really, really good year.”Mickelson and Woods both have found their way to the winner’s circle more recently than either Jordan Spieth or Rory McIlroy have. Like Mickelson, Spieth and McIlroy are each one major title from completing a career Grand Slam. McIlroy, 29, will get his opportunity first, at the Masters in April. Spieth’s turn will come next, at the P.G.A. Championship in May.And then the spotlight will settle like a laser beam on Mickelson, who played his first major as a pro at the 1992 U.S. Open at Pebble Beach. He noted that this year marked the 100th anniversary of his maternal grandfather’s debut as a pre-teen caddie at Pebble Beach, where he made 25 cents a round.
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Twenty-two years after Tiger Woods raised the curtain on golf’s version of the Broadway sensation “Cats,” he has set the stage for a spellbinding encore.With a five-under-par 67 in the third round at Augusta National on Saturday, Woods positioned himself for his first major victory since 2008, on the same Augusta National stage where he stole the show in 1997 with a record-breaking 12-stroke victory in his first major as a professional.Woods will enter the final round tied for second with Tony Finau, two strokes behind Francesco Molinari, who posted a 66 for a 54-hole total of 13-under 203.[The wait is over. After nearly 11 years, Tiger Woods has won another major.]In 1997, the 21-year-old Woods was a three-time United States Amateur champion who requested a winner’s green jacket that hung loosely on him because he expected to grow into it over the course of his career. Now 43, with 14 major titles and four back operations behind him, Woods is poised to do what no one — least of all, him — thought possible two years ago: continue to expand his legacy. With a victory, he would pull to three major titles behind Jack Nicklaus’s record 18.[Read how Tiger Woods pushed his body to the point of breakdown and then came back.]Before the 2017 Masters, Woods flew in for the Champions Dinner and spent the evening in terrible physical discomfort. So great was the pain in Woods’s lower back, he told one of his fellow diners: “I’m done. I won’t play golf again.”On the eve of this year’s tournament, Woods touched on that tough time in a speech after he accepted the Ben Hogan Award, presented to a player who has remained active in the game despite a physical handicap or serious injury or illness. He said he required a pain-relieving shot just to make it through the dinner two years ago, and traveled from Augusta National straight to the airport, for a flight to England to consult with a back specialist, who recommended back fusion surgery.Woods traveled to Texas that month for the operation, which he described it as “a last resort” after three less complex operations. His goal at the time, he said, was not to resume his winning ways in golf but to regain a quality of life that allowed him to play with his two children and engage in daily activities with minimal physical distress.Before Woods returned last year for his first competitive start at Augusta National since 2015, he described himself as “a walking miracle.” Woods tied for 32nd last year, a performance that he used as a launching pad to contend at the British Open, where he tied for sixth, and the P.G.A. Championship, where he finished second. Last September, Woods won his first P.G.A. Tour title since 2013, and his 80th over all, at the Tour Championship in Atlanta, a two-hour drive from Augusta National.If Woods is to win his fifth Masters title, he is going to have to vanquish a group of players who do not appear cowed by him. Molinari, 36, was paired with Woods in the final round of last year’s British Open and wrested the lead from him down the stretch to win his first major title.And lurking one stroke behind Woods and Finau is Brooks Koepka, who held off Woods to win the P.G.A. Championship. Everything Woods’s younger competitors know about winning, they learned in their formative years by watching him attack courses without fear or finesse.“He’s playing against guys that he kind of bred,” Finau said, adding: “The way he dominated and watching him growing up, it was like he was scared of nobody. So I think a lot of us try to be like him and try to be that way to where nothing on the golf course can scare us and our skills can showcase.”Finau, 29, who is the PGA Tour’s first full-time player of Samoan and Tongan descent, watched the telecast of Woods’s 1997 victory from his family’s home in Salt Lake City. Finau, who was 7, said that when he watched Woods become the first man of color to slip on the green jacket, he was inspired to take up golf.“I saw someone who had the same skin color as me,” Finau said in an interview last year. “As a kid, I could relate to that.”
The cheers were still reverberating around Augusta National after Tiger Woods’s triumph in the Masters on Sunday, but fans were already starting to look ahead. Is Woods back after a decade of injury and personal adversity? Could he, at age 43, regain the form that had him destroying fields from 1997 to 2008? Or was the comeback a kind of fool’s gold, a last hurrah before the decline sets in again?One thing’s for sure: People will be watching. Here’s what’s next for Woods.The wait for the second major is shorter than usual this year because the P.G.A. has been moved from its regular August date. One goal was to get the least-heralded major a little more attention. Woods’s win in the Masters has helped that cause hugely.Woods has won four P.G.A.s, most recently in 2007. The tournament this year will be played at Bethpage Black on Long Island. The difficult Black course has never hosted the P.G.A. before, but it was the site of the U.S. Open in 2009, when Woods tied for sixth, and in 2002, when Woods won, beating Phil Mickelson by three shots.Woods is currently listed as one of three favorites at 10-1, along with Dustin Johnson and Rory McIlroy.The United States Open returns this year to one of the grandest sites in golf, Pebble Beach, on the Monterey Peninsula in California.Woods has three U.S. Open victories in his career. Before Sunday, his last major win was the 2008 Open.Pebble Beach also hosted the Open in 2010, when Woods was tied for fourth, and 2000, when he crushed the field by 15 strokes.Woods, Johnson and McIlroy are again the three favorites for this tournament.The British Open, or just the Open as it is called in Europe, will be headed to Royal Portrush in Northern Ireland for the first time since 1951. The course, on the North Atlantic, is expected to continue the Open’s tradition of unpredictable and challenging weather conditions.Woods has three British Opens, with his most recent victory in 2006. He and McIlroy, who is from Northern Ireland, are the two favorites.Woods, once an automatic fixture on the American teams for the Ryder and Presidents Cups, missed out for several years before returning to the Ryder Cup last year as a captain’s pick. He finished the event 0-4.He was named the captain for this year’s Presidents Cup, and after his return to form, it looks as if he will be a playing captain.Though he has been a part of American teams since 1997, Woods has at times displayed a lack of enthusiasm for team events.The United States has won the Presidents Cup, against a team of non-European international golfers, seven straight times. This year’s event will be held in Melbourne, Australia.
Marilynn Smith, who help found the Ladies Professional Golf Association in 1950, when the women’s game was barely a blip on the national sports scene, and went on to win 21 tour events, including two major championships, died on Tuesday in Goodyear, Ariz. She was 89.Her death, which was announced by the L.P.G.A. on its website, left Marlene Bauer Hagge and Shirley Spork as the last survivors among the 13 pioneers of the women’s tour.The L.P.G.A. said Smith, who would have turned 90 on Saturday, made her last public appearance on March 24 greeting players as they walked off the 18th green at the Bank of Hope Founders Cup tournament in Phoenix.During its first season, the L.P.G.A. sponsored a dozen or so tournaments, with prize money totaling just $50,000. Babe Didrikson Zaharias, an Olympic track and field champion in 1932, and Patty Berg were the main draws at first, but Smith, as well as co-founders like Hagge, Louise Suggs and Betty Jameson, became prominent golf pros in their own right.Last year, the L.P.G.A. sponsored 32 events in 13 countries with $65.35 million in prize money.Smith captured the 1963 and 1964 Titleholders Championship, an L.P.G.A. major tournament of her era, which was played at Augusta Country Club in Georgia, adjacent to Augusta National Golf Club, the home of the Masters. She won her first L.P.G.A. tournament in 1954 and her last in 1972.While serving as L.P.G.A. president from 1958 to 1960, Smith was instrumental in founding the organization’s teaching division, now known as the L.P.G.A. Teaching and Club Professional Membership. She gave clinics throughout the United States and in 37 other countries and was the first woman to be a television analyst for men’s pro golf tournaments. She worked with ABC at the 1973 United States Open, at Oakmont in Pennsylvania, and the Colonial, in Fort Worth.She was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame in 2006.The L.P.G.A. was the successor to the Women’s Professional Golf Association, which was founded during World War II but disbanded in 1949 after incurring financial difficulties. In the L.P.G.A.’s early years, it struggled as well, receiving little notice in the press or on the radio and having no TV exposure.The women also lacked the funds to fly, so they traveled to tournaments in caravans of four or five automobiles when the interstate highway system was in its infancy.When they reached a tournament site, they had to sell their product to the locals. Smith, an exuberant woman who seemed just right for publicizing the tour, was given the nickname Miss Personality for her cheerleading.“We would go to major league ball parks, St. Louis, Cincinnati, Washington, D.C., and hit golf balls from home plate out to center field, with a 9 or an 8 iron, and then we’d get on the microphone and ask those baseball fans to come out and see the L.P.G.A. play,” she told The Arizona Republic long afterward.The women were also the tournament directors and rules makers, and they called in results to the news agencies and newspapers. Tournament sites came and went. “We might get one event one year; the next year it was gone,” Smith told The Dallas Morning News in 2000.Marilynn Smith was born on April 29, 1929, in Topeka, Kan., to Lynn and Alma Smith. Her father was an insurance executive.In her pre-teenage years, Marilynn managed and pitched for a boys’ baseball team. As she once told golf.com: “I came home from pitching one day and my mother said, ‘Well, how did you do today, dear?’ I threw my mitt against the wall and I said, ‘Oh, —,’ a four-letter word beginning with S that I had learned from the boys on the sandlot. And she marched me into the lavatory and washed my mouth out with soap.”
Welcome to Crossing the Border, a limited-run weekly newsletter from The New York Times. Like what you see? Send this to a friend. If someone forwarded it to you, sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox.By Manny Fernandez in Donna, Tex.It’s springtime on the border, and that means the winter season is winding down — the months when tens of thousands of retirees from Minnesota, South Dakota, Illinois and other parts of the Midwest adopt South Texas as their home away from home.Retirees in swimsuits ride their bicycles to the pool, bright noodles tucked under their arms like jousting lances. They line the streets for golf-cart parades. They venture into Mexico, shopping for cheap medicine, getting pedicures, undergoing low-cost dental work and sipping goblet-sized margaritas.They are known as Winter Texans, and they concentrate mainly in the Rio Grande Valley, the temperate region deep in South Texas that is also the place where the largest number of migrants has been crossing lately from Central America — President Trump has declared a national emergency along the border and stationed Army troops to help control the escalating influx. One of their base camps was a quarter-mile from where seniors at the Victoria Palms resort in Donna deploy by the dozens to occupy five pickleball courts.The annual invasion of Midwesterners — and a number of Canadians — has decreased in recent years, but they remain an economic and cultural force. An estimated 106,000 Winter Texans spent about $528 million in the valley in the 2017-18 winter season, according to a survey by the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley. Tex-Mex restaurants fly welcome banners for them. There are Winter Texan newspapers, age-qualified RV parks, expos, cruises, theater productions and bumper stickers — one pickup truck in the border city of McAllen had two: “Iowa Winter Texan” and “I’m retired. Go around.”“It gets me out of the snowbanks,” said Dean Miller, 58, a resident of Detroit Lakes, Minn., who spends the winter living and working at the Winter Ranch resort in Alamo. “You’ll go to some event down here and you’ll find your neighbor from back home.”The majority of Winter Texans are white and in their early 70s. Many of them voted for Mr. Trump in 2016, and their very presence this winter quietly subverted the president’s assertion that the border is in crisis. They have been coming to the region for years — in some cases, their parents were Winter Texans, too — and the political dynamics and national-emergency rhetoric has no effect on how, or where, they spend their retirement.“We don’t see what you see on TV,” said Terry Goss, the general manager of Victoria Palms, one of the largest Winter Texan communities, with up to 2,500 retirees.What do Winter Texans see, exactly?A slice of border life that looks nothing like what many Americans think of as border life. There was Nathan’s fourth annual Sock Hop at Ranchero Village in Weslaco one Friday. There were fish frys and riverboat tours, line dancing and karaoke sessions, bluegrass acoustic jams and nondenominational church services. At the Winter Ranch resort in Alamo one Monday afternoon, the Winter Ranch Players packed the house with three one-act plays, “The Ethel and Albert Comedies.” At Victoria Palms, Mr. Goss spoke standing next to a poster listing all the sold-out shows at the resort’s ballroom, one of them a Rolling Stones tribute band concert. Victoria Palms is so popular with Canadians that a Victoria Palms reunion is scheduled most summers near Toronto.Margaret Hitzemann, 63, who normally lives in Onamia, Minn., spent the past two months in a townhouse in Port Aransas, near Corpus Christi. One rainy afternoon, she and her husband visited the Mexican tourist town of Nuevo Progreso. They bought crispy chapulines — crickets, a fried delicacy — and went into a pharmacy to buy some cheap medicine.“We don’t take a lot of meds, so we were thinking, ‘Oh, let’s go down and get some cheap Tylenol and Advil and that kind of thing,’” Ms. Hitzemann said. “I was like, ‘Oh my gosh, this isn’t any cheaper than Walmart.’ So we ended up not buying any medications.”In a region with a large Latino population and tolerant attitudes toward immigration — many people have family members on both sides of the border — culture clash with the Northerners is inevitable. The study released by the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley included unedited messages from Winter Texans to local officials, and some of the sharpest comments read: “Be more American, less Mexican. This is not Mexico!” and “Have channel 5 respect Mr. Trump” and “Keep the grass cut, the trash picked up and speak English.”Already, the exodus back north has started. The end of the season for many comes on Thursday, with the annual Winter Texan appreciation day in Nuevo Progreso.
NAUCALPAN DE JUÁREZ, Mexico — Nine holes into his record-tying round Sunday, Justin Thomas bumped into Rory McIlroy, who was waiting to tee off on the first hole at Club de Golf Chapultepec. He said he asked McIlroy how he thought the afternoon would go.McIlroy began the final day of the Mexico Championship four strokes behind Dustin Johnson, a deficit that was daunting but hardly insurmountable; the previous Sunday, J. B. Holmes charged from four strokes back to beat Thomas at the Genesis Open.McIlroy told Thomas it would be hard to catch Johnson because of how well he was playing, a prediction that proved to be hit-the-flagstick accurate. Johnson, who was sixth on the PGA Tour in driving distance last year, ranked first in this week’s field in putting. It was an unbeatable combination as Johnson closed with a five-under-par 66 to finish five strokes clear of McIlroy, who posted a 67.Johnson’s 72-hole total in this World Golf Championships event outside Mexico City was 19 under. McIlroy finished at 16 under, which would have been good enough to win each of the previous two years that the tournament was held here. On Sunday, all it got McIlroy was a five-stroke cushion over the third-place finishers: Paul Casey (65), Ian Poulter (68) and Kiradech Aphibarnrat (68).Tiger Woods recorded a 69 to finish in a four-way tie for 10th at eight under.“It was sort of like there was two different golf tournaments going on and I won the second one,” said McIlroy, who has posted top-five finishes in all four of his tour starts in 2019.Thomas, who played in the first group off the back nine, took advantage of pristine greens and nonexistent pressure to record a 62, tying his year-old course record, vaulting him into ninth. His score represented a 13-stroke improvement over his final 18 last Sunday at Riviera Country Club.“I would sure play a lot of money to switch the two,” Thomas said with a smile. “I would gladly take a 50th place this week to win last week.”Johnson, 34, became the first player since Davis Love III in 2008 to reach 20 PGA Tour titles. “To get 20 wins out here is very difficult, and do it before I turn 35 is pretty incredible,” Johnson said, adding, “This is a big one for me, and it gives me a lot of confidence for the rest of the year.”Johnson is not lacking for confidence. He has two victories and a tie for ninth in his last four starts. He also extended his streak of seasons with at least one tour title to 12, an emphatic argument for his inclusion among the finest players in the men’s game (Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer share the record at 17, one better than Billy Casper and three more than Woods).McIlroy, 29, also extended a streak, this one more enigmatic. Since January of last year, he has played his way into the last group for the final round eight times — without emerging triumphant. McIlroy’s lone title run in that stretch came at Bay Hill last March when he started the final round in the next-to-last group.To mount a charge, McIlroy needed to get off to the kind of hot start engineered by Casey, who teed off four groups ahead and birdied the first three holes. Johnson started shakily, playing the first five holes in one over, but McIlroy, despite making a birdie at the second, could not swing the momentum his way. He did not find a fairway off the tee until the eighth hole and he missed a birdie putt of 11 feet on the first hole and a 6-footer for par on the fourth.After playing the first nine in one over, McIlroy settled for par on No. 10, which Johnson birdied. At that point, McIlroy said, his caddie, Harry Diamond, told him to forget about trying to catch Johnson and concentrate on consolidating second place.“I knew at that point that I didn’t have a chance; D. J. was playing too well,” McIlroy said.McIlroy covered the final eight holes in five under and all he could do was equal Johnson’s final-nine 31.
NAUCALPAN DE JUÁREZ, Mexico — From where he stood on the fairway on the par-5 15th hole, all Tiger Woods could see on Saturday were the possibilities. He was eight under par for the tournament and stalking a final-round, final-threesome grouping in his Mexico Championship debut.Standing several yards from Woods, also in the fairway, John Sutcliffe, who is covering the tournament for ESPN and ESPN Deportes, could see all the way to Sunday night.Sutcliffe, who grew up in a house along the 10th hole of the course, Club de Golf Chapultepec, said, “I was thinking, when it gets to be the final hole of the tournament, maybe the Tiger roar will be in Spanish.”But elsewhere on the course, Dustin Johnson was pulling away from the field, and No. 15 was about to undo Woods.His 54-hole total of six under left him tied for ninth in this World Golf Championships event, well out of the final group and 10 strokes behind Johnson, who carded a 66 for a four-shot lead over his closest competitor, Rory McIlroy.Still the headliner is indisputably Woods, who took 24 years and 381 starts to make his first appearance as a professional in Mexico.He has drawn large, ardent crowds here, just outside Mexico City. After waiting so long to see Woods up close, the followers were not about to let a few errant swings or wayward putts ruin the festive mood. On Saturday, they shouted things like, “Tiger, Marry My Sister!” and serenaded him with cries of “Tiger” until he disappeared into the scoring room.Woods’s caddie, Joe LaCava, described Woods as “like Michael Jordan down here” and said the fans were so excited to see him in person, “they didn’t even care where the shots were going.”At 15, his second shot found a greenside bunker, and he chunked his next shot out of the sand, leaving him a 25-footer for birdie. Woods’s first putt rolled four feet past the hole, and he three-putted from there for a double-bogey 7. It was the 12th four-putt of his career, and it killed momentum. He made bogey on the next hole — also after his tee shot found the fairway — before salvaging a 1-under 70 with a closing birdie.One of the fans who followed Woods for each of his first three rounds was Sebastian Mondragon, 13, who said he started playing golf when he was 9. He ran from spot to spot, positioning himself so he could try to draw Woods’s attention to a handmade sign that featured the face of a tiger and the exhortation, “Let’s Go, Tiger.”As Woods walked from the eighth green to the ninth tee, Mondragon stood at the front of the rope line. He waved the sign and shouted Woods’s name, but the 14-time major champion walked past, staring straight ahead.Mondragon said he hoped that watching Woods would offer some pointers. “What I’ve learned,” Mondragon said, “is he has a very good focus.”Woods had a lot to process as he headed to the ninth tee. He bent his 9-iron on the eighth hole when he hit a tree during his swing, so the club was out of commission for the rest of the round. He sorely missed it on the 14th hole, when he had the perfect distance for a 9-iron approach.Using his pitching wedge instead, Woods came up short but still managed par. On the 16th hole, LaCava said, Woods had to lay back off the tee to set up an 8-iron approach.After the round, Woods, 43, received therapy on his surgically repaired back, LaCava said that after that, his boss intended to meet with a club repairer in hopes of fixing his 9-iron in time for Sunday’s round.